# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - July

Goal: Continuous improvement

- Date: 19th July 2018
- Videoconference link: https://calpoly.zoom.us/my/jupyter
[Link to prior meeting's virtual meeting report](https://hackmd.io/XXXXXXX)

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name / institution / GitHub handle
* min / simula / @minrk
* tim / wild tree tech / @betatim
* erik / sandvik code / @consideRatio
* j forde / @jzf2101
* Brian / Cal Poly / ellisonbg
* Chris / UC Berkeley / @choldgraf

## Actions

1. Help or discussion needed; Agenda Items for Monthly Meeting
 1.1. Open PRs
     2. [#758, node pools, k8s 1.9+, scheduler, etc...](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/758)
 3.2. Open issues
     4. last call for camera version of icml workshop writeup plz sign up on openreview http://openreview.net/

2. Decisions needed
    - betatim
        - what if I was to receive $20000 (or more) in cloud credits, how could they go to running mybinder.org?
            - would require juggling billing accounts
            - a reason to get started with federation so we can handle this under the hood?
            - reasons not to take credits on other platforms is that it adds complexity that costs human effort
            - jzf says related: grant opportunities for additional funding
            - add a public demo of binderhub with more resources to convince people we can do more to encourage them to deploy their own (fancy.mybinder.org)
                - maybe do impressive demos like pangeo where users can spin up big clusters
            - Jessica submits a proposal for AWS credits in the next few days for the demo of fancy.mybinder.org
            - "ai.mybinder.org" in order to host fancier compute and highlight machine learning use-cases
                - can this grant also include some engineering time from SageMaker/AWS team?
                - geo.mybinder.org, yourdiscipline.mybinder.org as a way to expand this idea
            - create a call for hosting mybinder.org, wait till after AWS grant
                - if you are against this write here
                - like this idea of a call, but we might want to make it non-exclusive, to allow multiple vendors to participate.
        - how do we try out https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible to see how disruptive it would be to users and how much we would end up saving?
            - Tim will create an issue to follow this up
            - One idea: split users between two nodepools once we have the ability nodepool
        - Wild Tree Tech will start saying on their webpage that we offer hosted/managed JupyterHub and BinderHub instances
    - choldgraf
        - I'd like to get some momentum behind the "binder sustainability" conversation. Or at least to recap what we discussed @ the dev meeting.
        - Update on the scipy presentation: http://bit.ly/scipy-2018-binder
            - start using the SciPy paper once it is out instead of the eLife blog post?
            - what about the JOSS paper that is stalled? Waiting for 0.1
        - @jzf2101 should give an update on the reproducible environments paper she presented!
            - if you want your name on this sign up for openreview.org
        - Update on the PEARC conference tutorial that we'll be giving in pittsburgh
            - link to agenda: https://pearc18.conference-program.com/?page_id=10&id=tut149&sess=sess103
            - workshop will focus on using it on Jetstream and ComputeCanada instead of commercial clouds
        - Cost model + projections for our $$$ burn rate
            - we aren't sure how long we have before we run out of money
            - we give 1GB of RAM at least, 10min idle time out, max run time 8h, scaling is determined by RAM required not CPU needs
        - Design: https://github.com/jupyterhub/design
            - we have been using the wrong logo all along!!!11!
    - consideRatio
    - minrk
        - we should try adopting the multi-node-pool + nodeAffinity deployment strategy, which may help a lot with scale-down (harder to say without packing for Binder's round-the-clock visitors, but works great for users in a single timezone)
            - ERIK: This is what [#758](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/758) is about, in an optional but recommended manner.
    - ellisonbg
        - Zach Sailer will be starting full time at Cal Poly around August 6th.
        - He will be working mostly full time on JupyterHub things, starting with better integration with directory services (AD, LDAP, etc.) and the idea of "projects" for JupyterHub.
    - ...
    - ...
3. Next actions (team)
    - concrete actions


## News, Information, and Thanks

4. Team Metrics

5. Team News and Informational items
- 5.1 Organization highlights 
- 5.2 BinderHub projects
    - `https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/48236` Tim isn't sure what exactly they are planning but I made a suggestion for what I think would be cool.
- 5.3 JupyterHub projects
- 5.4 Related projects (repo2docker, nbgrader, others)

6. Thanks, Things to Celebrate, and anything else
- We got some shout outs in the CERN High School teacher summer school https://indico.cern.ch/event/651996/contributions/2994003/attachments/1689835/2718654/WG5_Open_Data_Presentation.pdf and their repo https://github.com/cms-opendata-education/HST-2018
- Tim will be speaking about Binder at PyconDE in October
- ...