---
title: March 2018
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Monthly Report - March 2018

Goal: Continuous improvement

- Meeting Date: 21 Mar 2018, 6pm CET
[or your timezone](http://arewemeetingyet.com/Berlin/2018-03-21/18:00/Binder%20Team%20Meeting)

- Videoconference link: https://calpoly.zoom.us/my/jupyter

- [Link to prior week's virtual meeting report](https://hackmd.io/xugvWwHETgiWAy1gk6-Npw?view) (needs archiving)

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:
* your name / affiliation / github
* Tim / Wild Tree Tech / @betatim
* Carol / Project Jupyter (Cal Poly) / @willingc
* Min / Simula / @minrk
* Jessica / Jupyter / @jzf2101
* Erik / IT-Gymnasiet Uppsala / @consideRatio
* Chris H / UC Berkeley / @choldgraf

## Actions

1.  Help or discussion needed; Agenda Items for Monthly Meeting
    - Open PRs
    - Open issues
        - repo2docker next release [0.6 mid-April](https://github.com/jupyter/repo2docker/milestones)
        - z2jh - support for k8 deployments - [issue](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/593)
            - NOTES: two biggest differentiators deploying k8s on baremetal vs. cloud provider is "LoadBalancer" and "PersistentVolume". Would be valuable to make it clearer which kubernetes objects/concepts we're using, and which can be "assumed" vs. needed.
            - TODO: create issue to discuss which parts of the jhub deployment depend on which components of kubernetes - create documentation on this.
            - TODO: reach out to the Orsay people about what they've done to set this up and what problems they found
            - TODO: reach out to CERN about how installing z2jh went (Tim)
            - k8 incubator: [kubespray](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/kubespray)
    - Kubeflow (JupyterHub and Machine Learning/Tensorflow) [Link to JHub issues](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aarea%2Fjupyter)
        - involvement
        - 15 minute presentation on Friday, April 6 9am Pacific
        - influence direction
        - [kaml-d](https://github.com/kaml-d/design)
            - like kubeflow but from RedHat?
        - service bundles and svcat (service catalog)
    - Jessica asks: How do we get better information about interactive computing from Binder?
        - who uses mybinder?
        - what kind of repos are there?
        - Jessica is looking for information to share with the community on how everyone uses binder combining repo info from GH
        - GA gives us an idea of what repos people click and when but not how long they stay
        - can we extract something about "minutes in a binder" from stackdriver logs?
        - we can extend the pages in a user container to include GA in each container
        - investigate GitHub activity stream on bigquery
            - PyCaribbean talk on BigQuery, link?
        - Chris would like help with extracting data out of GA
            - there is a repo: jupyterhub/binder-data
            - Jessica will follow up
        - https://twitter.com/betatim/status/974710693902635010 scientist using mybinder for publication
    - dumping data task:
        - turn this into an issue on jupyterhub/binder, there might already be an issue
        - where to put data from prometheus?
        - how long does the prometheus data last?
        - how do we extract information and what information should we extract?
        - Note that right now prometheus does *not* log which repos get launched, so we need to figure out the right way to do this, I think Yuvi had thoughts on a path forward there
    - Is anybody interested in a reproducible document collab with eLife / substance.io ? There's a similar interest w/ a team at the Turing institute in London
        - eLife and substance.io working together on reproducible document format and UI
        - eLife might host their own binderhub
        - maybe interested in helping create tech for publishers
        - Turing institute interested in finding published papers and enhancing their public version
        - Jessica, Tim, Min and Erik would be interested in hearing more
        - Erik figures that that it would be an awesome resource helping out communicating the benefits of mybinder.org to universities.
1.  Decisions needed
    - do we want to commit to a BinderHub release schedule for 0.1?
        - Potentially treat "releases" more as a marker of "which versions work with other versions of other tools" as opposed to defining it by major features. Cut a 0.1 release around the next release of JupyterHub and make it clear that BinderHub is still in big-time alpha version.
2.  Next actions (team)
    - Working toward JupyterHub 0.9 release
        - rough timeline: ~weeks
        - there will be a (short) beta release

 
## News, Information, and Thanks

1.  Team Metrics
2.  Team News and Informational items
    - Organization highlights
        - Four(!) [JupyterCon CFP submissions](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/33)
    - BinderHub projects
    - JupyterHub projects
    - Related projects (repo2docker, nbgrader, others)
    - [Google Cloud Podcast](https://www.gcppodcast.com/) Interview Monday with Yuvi, Chris, and Jessica
    - Meetings with Orsay in Paris
        - Orsay and OpenDreamKit talking about JupyterHub in education with Min and Chris
    - JupyterDays talk
    - Oxford / Cambridge interest in JupyterHub
    - eLife/substance.io collaboration on reproducible documents?
    - Binder / Turing institute collaboration on "reproducible stars"
    - Had a nice meeting with CZI people at Berkeley, seems like there's opportunity for collaboration there
1.  Thanks, Things to Celebrate, and anything else

    * Two big milestones that went well: JupyterLab related traffic spike and try.jupyter.org now uses mybinder.org!