---
title: December 2020
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - December 2020

- **Date:** Thursday 17th December 2020
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@sgibson91/hubs-team-meeting
- **GitHub issue:** https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/357
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html



## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- Sarah Gibson / The Alan Turing Institute / \@sgibson91
- Hugh Shanahan / Royal Holloway / \@hughshanahan
- Mridul Seth / GESIS / \@MridulS
- Min RK / Simula / \@minrk
- Ivana Huskova / Simula / \@IvanaH8
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / \@manics
- Tim Head / Binder / \@betatim
- Isabela Presedo-Floyd / Quansight Labs / \@isabela-pf
- Erik Sundell / Sundell open source / \@consideRatio
- Omar Richardson / Karlstad University / \@0mar
- Kien Dang/ National University of Singapore / \@kiendang
- Chris Holdgraf / the International Interactive Computing Collaboration (2i2c) / \@choldgraf

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Min** finally put in the time to (almost) finish internal_ssl support in kubespawner: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/pull/409>. Could use a little help getting the tests running on CI (at the 'works for me' stage)
- **Ivana/Omar** RBAC progress update
- **Erik**
  - Releases: towards 1.0.0 of z2jh through 0.11.0, kubespawner 0.15.0 recently released
  - Security scan of images: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1947>
  - Auth rework: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1943>

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Sarah** MyBinder Federation migrated over to Helm 3! Thanks to Erik and Min for help/support!

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Sarah** (10 mins): Code of Conduct
  - I have added a link to the Project Jupyter Code of Conduct to the  top of this meeting so that it is visible for participants. My question is are there any tweaks we'd like to tailor it for this team/community. [Issue for discussion.](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/361) My thoughts:
    - **Be friendly** (principle 1) is kinda vague and difficult to enforce. What does it mean to not be friendly?
    - Would we like to implement a JupyterHub CoC committee as a first port of call before escalating up to the Project Jupyter CoC? My thoughts behind this is that going to the main committee can feel really "official", especially if the topic in question is minor (relatively speaking).
  - Potential actions/ thoughts:
    - Make the part of the CoC that talks about resolving things in the team more visible/findable/explicit
    - Use more specific language around actions that are *not* allowed e.g. "Be friendly"
    - "reach out to anyone" isn't great advice. Should be a specific person with authority to carry out CoC procedures. It may isolate those already struggling to make connections in the community.
    - link to the COC with a short sentence in the meeting minutes
    - PyLadies CoC as an example: <https://pyladies.com/CodeOfConduct/>
    - Contribute upstream rather than forking
    - Jupyter-wide CoC could use some love. Let's make sure it's functional first before thinking about our sub-team
- **Erik** (5 turned 15 min): Z2JH PR discussion about PodDisruptionBudget
  - What is a PDB?
    - It is a k8s resource declaring that a set of pods should not be vulontarily disrupted without special consideration described in the PDB. As an example, it can say: if you disrupt these pods, only disurpt them one at the time, or, don't disrupt these pods at all.
  - What is my suggestion? Why? Go ahead?
  - Issue with discussion: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/1934>
  - PR to disable hub/proxy PDB by default: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1938>
- **Tim** (2 mins): Can BinderHub be used to launched images on kubeflow?
  - Make BinderHub able to talk to one or more JupyterHubs?
  - Then could also talk to a kubeflow instance to launch the built image?
- **Tim** (2 mins): Problem: starting a repo of a build image takes ~15secs (if you're lucky).
  - Could make a list of images that are "pre-launched"
  - Top complaint is that repos take too long to load
  - Tornado request handler has a lot of logic around "if there's no image, built it" etc
  - Sensible place to put this that is not the tornado request handler?
  - Min has an open PR sketching v2 of the API
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/pull/1048>
    - More explicit about event streams
    - Needed to write two handlers
- **Simon** (2mins): repo2docker PRs to think about
  - Abstract container engines
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/848>
  - S3 logs
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/967>
  - **Erik:** Related - I saw a video regarding what container runtimes are etc that I liked: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KUdmFyefSA>
