# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - October

- **Date:** Thursday 22nd October, 2020
- **Time:** 8am UTC
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-10-22/08:00/Hubs-Team-Meeting
- **GitHub issue:** https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/340
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- Sarah Gibson / The Alan Turing Institute / @sgibson91
- Romain Primet / Inria / @rprimet
- Erik Sundell / Sundell Open Source Consulting AB / @consideRatio
- Julian Alves / Multilayer B.V. / @donotpush
- Arnim Bleier / GESIS / @arnim
- Georgiana Dolocan / CIR / @GeorgianaElena
- Min Ragan-Kelley / Simula / @minrk
- Ivana Huskova / Simula / @IvanaH8
- Kenan Erdogan / GESIS / @bitnik
- Mridul Seth / GESIS / @MridulS
- Tim Head / Binder / @betatim
- Simon Li / OME, University of Dundee / @manics
- Kien Dang / National University of Singapore / @kiendang
- Kirstie Whitaker / Alan Turing Institute / @KirstieJane
- Yuvi Panda / UC Berkeley / @yuvipanda

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- add item here

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Sarah:** Huge congratulations to everyone who submitted content to JupyterCon! It's so wonderful to see such fantastic work coming out of this team.
  - Particular congratulations for the Jupyter distinguished contributors that were elected from this team! Tim, Chris, Erik, Georgiana, Zach and Yuvi.
- **Georgiana:** Huge shout-out to Erik and Simon, who did a lot of great work triaging issues and PRs around z2jh, jupyterhub, oauthenticator and possibly more. :tada:
- **bitnik:** bitnik is leaving and @MridulS joins GESIS Notebooks

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Simon (5 min discussion):
  - JupyterHub GitHub org pull request template <https://github.com/jupyterhub/.github/pull/11>
  - rkdarst comment: I appreciate the idea of templates in general, but I often send PRs from command line which doesn't present the template.  Still, yes, templates are a good idea.
    - feeling is that this will impact only a small number of (very experienced) users
    - the template is optional so it is ok to submit PRs that don't use it
    - we assume CLI PR creators are experienced users and hence experienced at writing a good PR description
    - for PR reviewers: keep in mind that not everyone sees the template so please don't respond with "closing this because you didn't use the template"
- rprimet (5-10 min discussion):
  - Pass handler to RepoProvider at init time ? (see <https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/1154>)
    - This changed is aimed at providing dynamic credentials for RepoProviders on authenticated Binderhub instances. Any gotchas related to asynchronicity, config etc. ?
    - Any comments? Good idea?
    - This would be a cool feature!
    - Auth'ed BinderHub in scope. Outside of scope would be a not-authed binderhub where auth happens "on demand" per repo handler.
- Erik (5 min?):
  - A PR about what I consider to be a anti-pattern. A help to consider it: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1840>
    - Yuvi: commented! We should allow standardized overrides (cmd, resources, labels, etc) for all our components consistently I think
    - Simon: I'm also leaning towards allowing overrides, the alternative is for people to fork the chart
- Erik (3 min?):
  - Issue and PR triaging help in JupyterHub repositories in general.
- Min (5 min):
  - JupyterHub RBAC / scopes project overview, new contributes (Ivana, Omar, Kien)
- Sarah: I may try upgrading staging from helm v2 to v3 tomorrow unless anyone else would prefer to try? <https://helm.sh/blog/migrate-from-helm-v2-to-helm-v3/>
  - what does this mean for other federation operators?
    - we can switch individual clusters when we want to
  - do we need to change our charts?
    - appears like we do not have to
    - ConfigMaps which store the helm state in `kube-system` need to be converted into Secrets and moved to the namespace that they belong to. The `2to3` plugin does this.
- rkdarst (5-10 min discussion): kubespawner profile list vs wrapspawner (rkdarst can't make it)
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/pull/393#issuecomment-703317048>
  - Anything to say about this?  Good idea?
    - Simon: I think making the profile list available to more spawners is a good idea
- SSH Interface to JupyterHub via [jupyterhub-ssh](https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterhub-ssh)
  - Not depentent on kubernetes, can work on any JupyterHub
  - PLEASE TRY OUT THIS DEMO!
    - Go to <https://workshop.datahub.berkeley.edu/hub/token> (login with username: <anything>, password: (ask yuvi for it))
    - Get a token
    - ssh `<username-you-used>@workshop.datahub.berkeley.edu`, password is token
    - TADA!
  - needs ssh tunneling and command execution to work for vscode integration, but all interactive commandline applications should work
    - Very new project (~5d)
    - Would love to deploy this on other JupyterHubs to test it out!
    - PLEASE PROVIDE FEEDBACK and CONTIBUTIONS! HELPS FEED ME <3
