---
title: February 2020
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - February 2020


## Meeting details

**Date:** February 20th, 2020, 8am UTC

# Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name | institution | GitHub handle
* Min | Simula | @minrk
* Tim | Binder | @betatim
* Sarah | Turing | @sgibson91
* Erik | Sandvik | @consideratio

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

* [name=myname] My update!
* [name=Min] I will likely have one or two summer students at Simula working on JupyterHub and Binder-related projects
* [name=Chris] I'm not making this meeting due to extreme jetlag. I've been working to launch a publishing project that may utilize some JupyterHub/Binder resources. Also working to get a JupyterHub position posted for the Pangeo grant. Finally, I'll attend the CZI EOSS meeting next week on behalf of the team. Please let me know if you'd like me to do anything in particular while there, other than repping the awesome @georgiana and @tim :-)
* [name=Sarah] I've been working on a news article/blog post to annouce Turing as the 4th Federation member. If you are interested/have comments, please check out the PR! https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/820
* [name=Erik] I've been working on some subprojects that I'm new to such as ldapauthenticator.

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

* [name=myname] My report!
* [name=Tim] User survey
    * https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/257
    * https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/256
* [name=Min] CORS issue report (https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/1344)
    * nbinteract doesn't (always) send "Origin" headers?
        * https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/access-control-allow-origin-header-is-missing-on-mybinder-org/3367
    * Tim thinks we need to add the build URL parameter back
        * we will look into this
    * Open questions
        * what cookies are set on notebooks.gesis.org?
        * what happens if we explicitly set withCredentials to false?
* [name=Min] JupyterHub startup is about to get ~50x faster for deployments with lots of users (https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/2936)
* [name=Chris] Only semi-related to JupyterHub, but I'd love to have feedback on a new flavor of markdown we're working on as a part of the publishing project. It is called MyST, and is an attempt at *slightly* extending CommonMark in order to use Sphinx roles and directives. Happy to chat more about it, but you can find an intro to the tool here: http://myst_parser.readthedocs.org/
* [name=Chris] I am helping to organize the Jupyter Accessibility workshop (a bloomberg-funded event). I think the focus will be on user-interfaces, but if we can think of ways that JupyterHub/Binder interfaces could be made more accessible, please let me know (or post in an issue) in case we can try to improve this too. [name=Sarah] :tada:
    * [name=Min] JupyterHub has very few controls and a lot in common with the notebook, so learning things on the notebook should be pretty easily transferrable to the Hub. Same mostly goes for BinderHub, I think. Corollary: Since JupyterHub has so much less UI to cover, it could be a more manageable test bed.
* [name=Erik] Documentation discussion: I'd like to have more architecture overview diagrams for repos.
    * Georgiana created a beautiful diagram for JupyterHub (https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), but I'm not able to update it for example as I don't know how it is created etc. So, I'd like to find a way to empower at least us in the JupyterHub team to update useful diagrams without too much trouble.
    * Could we use a google drive drawing or a draw.io diagram stored in our jupyterhub google drive perhaps?
