---
title: March 2020
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - March 2020

Date: 2020-03-19 at 5pm UTC

* **Videoconference link:** https://calpoly.zoom.us/my/jupyter
    * Your timezone: https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-03-19/17:00/JupyterHub%20Binder%20team%20meeting

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name / institution / GitHub handle
* Sarah / The Alan Turing Institute / \@sgibson91
* Simon / OME, University of Dundee / \@manics
* Kenan / GESIS / \@bitnik
* Georgiana / CIR / \@GeorgianaElena
* Arnim / GESIS / \@arnim
* Tim / Binder / \@betatim
* Chris / Binder / \@choldgraf
* Wayne / Upstate Medical University / \@fomightez
* Kirstie / The Alan Turing Institute / \@KirstieJane
* Zach / Jupyter Cal Poly / \@Zsailer
* Rollin / NERSC / \@rcthomas

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

* [name=Georgiana] CIR (contributor in residence) project is going well. The main things that happened from my last update are: TLJH first blog post (the superheros story) was submitted for review, TLJH tests were refactored and an upgrade test was added, made progress moving part of the UI config to the backend in BinderHub, thanks to Kenan's (\@bitnik) review. The next weeks, I will continue to work on the next TLJH blog post of the series and the first CIR post.
* [name=Kirstie] Been on strike recently so super far behind, but very interested in editing the blog post to announce Turing being a member of the Binder Federation next week.
* [name=Chris] wants you all to try out the new prototype for Jupyter Book :-) https://beta.jupyterbook.org/intro.html

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! Weâ€™ll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

* add item here
* [name=Sarah] Thank you to Zach (\@ZSailor) for all his hard work arranging the community calls :tada: We hope to see him around the community again in the near future :sunflower: Zach-Thanks all! :heart:
* [name=Georgiana] Thank you, Sarah for suggesting to add that lovely illustration from Scriberia to [the first TLJH blog post](https://blog.jupyter.org/the-superheros-and-the-magic-wand-596acaab722a) :heart:
* [name=Chris] Thanks to Sarah for posting the issue about this month's community meeting!


## Agenda items

This is what weâ€™ll cover in the meeting (we have about 60m in total). Weâ€™ll copy the proposed agenda topics above here just before the meeting.

* add item here (include your name and estimated time for discussion).
* [name=Sarah] (10 mins) It seems like a lot of conferences are going remote for obvious reasons. Would love to hear the team's thoughts on transferring my Fellowship plans of "going to the people" for a remote environment
  * Fellowship management repo: https://github.com/sgibson91/ssi-fellowship
  * Specific issue for collecting ideas: https://github.com/sgibson91/ssi-fellowship/issues/14
  * Some conferences are organised and some not so much
  * Training material for non programmers using notebooks and Binder
      * what exists already?
  * Example repository for Software carpentry lessons https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-example/setup.html

  * Wait to see what the conferences, present talk online as normal, in the hours afterwards invite people into the Gitter room
  * [name=Chris] general opinion: if there is anything that you're excited to try out in this new age of remote work, I am 100% in support of getting creating and trying new ways to reach people :-)
* [name=Kenan / Arnim] (5 mins) New Research Software Engineer \@GESIS  https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/260
* https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/gesis-is-searching-for-a-research-software-engineer-binder-jupyterhub/3501
  - kenan is going to leave the GESIS Notebooks team at the end of August 2020
      - ðŸ˜­
  - [name=Tim] what is the best link to share on social media for this position?
  - Started many cool things, also focus on finishing things! Which to focus on?
  - Is it a remote or a local position?
      - local position
  - What about a gallery, search of existing repos, UI work?
  - Can we surface cool/interesting/important issues better?
      - right now it is hard to find issues, they get discovered because someone comments on an old issue
      - use roadmaps as a more highlevel/vision type of thing instead of detailed planning
      - spotlight that points to ideas, what people are interested in/working on
  - If you do end up doing something because it is on the roadmap, please link to it and mention that the roadmap was providing inspiration for that work - it would be useful to know if it is affecting what people work on
* [name=kenan] (10 mins) what to do next for bringing GESIS Binder back to federation?
  - `/build/` endpoint is not redirect from gesis.mybinder.org to notebooks.gesis.org/binder/ anymore, so redirection happens on same domain: https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/1344#issuecomment-601030580
  - [name=Tim] let's do it!
      - [name=Chris] yeah! +1 for all having the same problems, we suffer together!
  - we have the beginnings of replacing Google analytics and matomo
      - Matomo needs some tender love and care to become the default
      - would be nice to retire GA
* [name=Chris] (10 mins) I've gotten a few questions like "how can we run classes remotely with Jupyter?". Is this information that's already out there? would the community benefit from a specific guidebook that covers this topic, even if it just aggregates links etc? Anybody interested in working on this? (maybe this is related to Sarah's question above?)
    * [name=Sarah] Malvika Sharan is currently writing a chapter for The Turing Way on remote working/collaboration - I bet remote teaching would be an excellent addition to that!
        * https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+remote
        * https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/962
    * questions could be about skills needed for remote teaching or about technology for teaching
        * depending on the question we should send them to different resources
    * Chris will start a thread on the discourse.jupyter.org
* Green team as pan-org? https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/266
    * [name=Tim] sounds good to me
* [name=Sarah] (**last** 5 mins) Is everyone ok?
![](https://i.imgur.com/Ear3YSn.gif)
