---
title: November 2022
tags:
  - binder
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - November 2022

- **Date:** Tuesday 15th November 2022
- **Time:** 6PM UTC
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-11-15/18:00/Hubs-Team-Meeting
- **Video conference link:** https://meet.jit.si/HubsTeamMeeting
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/\@sgibson91/hubs-team-meeting
- **GitHub issue:** https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/576
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/index.html#meeting-calendar

**By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [Code of Conduct](https://jupyter.org/conduct). Please take a second to read through it! :pray:**

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- name / institution / GitHub handle
- Christian Dike/ - / \@christiandike
- Saka Abass / Outreachy / Olaedey
- Min RK / Simula / \@minrk
- Arafat Abdussalam / Outreachy / ArafatAbdussalam
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / \@manics
- Sarah Gibson / 2i2c / sgibson91
- Sylvain Corlay / QuantStack / SylvainCorlay
- A T Darian / QuantStack / \@afshin
- Gabriela Vives / Quantstack / GabrielaVives
- Yuvi / Berkeley / \@2i2c
- Elizabeth Sambo / Outreachy / \@lizzysambo

## Introductions

If this is your first time attending the meeting, add your name below and we will ask you to introduce yourself on the call :)

- Gabriela: UX designer/researcher at Quantstack
Elizabeth Sambo:Front-end
Web developer
## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- Yuvi
  - Introducing new team member at Berkeley (Shane) who will take my place in running their hubs (which we still believe are the largest educational hubs around)
- Darian
    - Jupyter Executive Council election, last  step of bootstrapping before Jupyter Steering Council is disbanded
    - Single transferable vote, Two members to be elected
    - One member to be elected by transitional council
    - Comment on [JupyterHub Council PR](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/569#issuecomment-1315677486)
- Sylvain / Gabriela: Binder UX experiments
    - User research and mockups for JupyterLab and extensions
    - Been looking at JupyterHub/BinderHub UIs
    - Created wireframes, reorganised BinderHub landing page
    - No user testing so far
    - See also [Awesome bar/landing page redesign binderhub#844](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/844)
    - Many more user journeys to explore
    - [name=Sarah] 2i2c looking at user workflows incorporating repo2docker with JupyterHub
    - Meeting to be arranged
- Sarah: Update on Outreachy
    - Contribution period ended
    - One project on documentation
    - One project on JupyterHub accessibility, ties in with UX work
        - Notebook 7 (based on JupyterLab) had an accessibility audit done by UC Berkeley, a lot of issues fixed
    - One on creating a reusable pytest plugin to help test JupyterHub projects
        - Requires funding for a third project, not confirmed
    - Starting December 2022
    - https://jupyterhub-outreachy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    - Jupyter accessibility group meets regularly every other Wednesday
        - [calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=dgpd36f43et9grabn6tdin6pmc@group.calendar.google.com&cid=m3hek69dag7381umt8kcjd75u4@group.calendar.google.com&cid=aqpkui5q7oi32pk9tcp53hnssc@group.calendar.google.com&cid=d1874ur6fdhuj0snjnilac2nlc@group.calendar.google.com&cid=piahinejjr6ssvi8ikmjjop6ro@group.calendar.google.com) (wednesdays 11/16 and 11/30)
        - Sarah and/or min should join at least one if we can


## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- [name=Yuvi] Happy that Erik is doing cleanup to bring a bunch of our repos up to standard (LTIAuthenticator, Simpervisor, nbgitpuller)

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- [name=Name] (estimated time): Topic.
- [name=Meeting Facilitator] (2m): Assign a Notetaker - Volunteers welcome!
    - Notetaker: Simon
- [name=Sarah] (5m): December's meeting
    - Next month's meeting is scheduled to happen on 20th December. This is very close to when many of us in the northern hemisphere will be taking leave for the winter break. I propose we cancel this meeting and meet again in the new year.
        - Cancelled. Sarah will open an issue to formally cancel it and _remove it from calendar_
- [name=Min] (10m): new OVH cluster
    - [issue](https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/2407)
    - [work-in-progress pr](https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/pull/2414) (Terraform)
    - Deployed, working
    - NumFocus controls admin account, can be used to add others
    - Hopefully added to mybinder.org federation this week
    - Once live should announce the sponsorship, and shutdown old deployment
    - "Standard" config so should be easier to maintain
    - Harbor registry, includes complex configurable garbage collection rules for deleting old images
- [name=Sarah] Calum no longer maintaining Turing BinderHub, might be best to retire from federation
    - limited maintainers available
    - not currently in redirector due to intermittent errors
    - got more credits in other members of federation
    - decision: remove
- [name=Yuvi] Would love for someone to review Georgiana's PR for refactoring OAuthenticators
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/oauthenticator/pull/526
    - Helps simplify the code while adding new features!
- [name=Yuvi] Working on repo2jupyterlite-action: https://github.com/yuvipanda/repo2jupyterlite-action
    - Creates jupyterlite config from repo2docker/binderhub config files
    - https://github.com/marketplace/actions/repo2jupyterlite-action easy way to build jupyterlite for 
- [Jupyter community workshop on JupyterLite](https://blog.jupyter.org/community-workshop-jupyterlite-e992c61f5d7f)
    - funding may be available if not covered by employer
