---
title: April 2022
tags: binder, meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - April 2022

- **Date:** Thursday 21st April 2022
- **Time:** 9AM Europe/London
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2022-04-21/09:00/Hubs-Team-Meeting
- **Video conference link:** https://meet.jit.si/HubsTeamMeeting
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@sgibson91/hubs-team-meeting
- **GitHub issue:** https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/500
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html



## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- name / institution / GitHub handle
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / @manics
- Tim Head / Binder / @betatim
- Luke Hare / Alan Turing Institute / @lukehare
- Mridul Seth / GESIS / @MridulS

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- [name=Callum] can't make today's meeting due to a clash. Turing funding is stalled because one key approver has been on holiday (they are back so should be approved this or next week)
- [name=Tim] Hassan setup an account on the KAUST k8s cluster for me, time to start work!
- [name=Tim] Is anyone going to EuroPython 2022 in Dublin (July 2022)
    - Luke is potentially interested
    - Other interesting conferences:
        - RSE conference: https://rsecon2022.society-rse.org/
        - https://www.containerdays.io/ in Hamburg in September (could be a good venue for something like "Reproducible Science with Containers")
- [name=Luke]: helping Callum run the Turing cluster

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- [name=Min (not here)] Horizon Europe grant submitted yesterday for developing reproducibility in repo2docker, Binder (SOURCE: Supporting Open, Useful, Reproducible Computational Environments)

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- [name=Session Chair] (2m): Assigning a notetaker - volunteers welcome!
    - Notetaker: Simon
- [name=Simon] Min can't make Thursday morning meetings: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/500#issuecomment-1104772328
    - Keep or change the day?
        - Only 4 people in this meeting so can't decide, but Tue might work?
- [name=Mridul] Bump up GKE quota on demand if folks donate to binder?
    - Lot's of people open issue for increasing quotas. Now have Numfocus donation option, can we ask for _suggested_ donation in return for bump?
    - ask PyCon (or other conferences) if they could consider making a donation directly, instead of individual tutorial organisers
    - tweak issue template to explain cost and add link to donation button?
    - Dedicated cluster for repos with increased quotas which have donated to guarantee availability? Might imply too much of a transaction
    - Can we bump memory or other resource quotas on a per-repo basis?
- [name=Tim] should we prepare mybinder.org for PyCon somehow?
    - for example remove the limit on total number of pods
