# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting

- **Date:** Tuesday 21st February 2023
- **Time:** 9AM Europe/London
- **This HackMD:** <https://hackmd.io/@sgibson91/hubs-team-meeting>
- **GitHub issue:** <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/616>
- **Calendar for future meetings:** <https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/index.html#meeting-calendar>

**By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [Code of Conduct](https://jupyter.org/conduct). Please take a second to read through it! :pray:**

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- Min / Simula / @minrk
- Richard Alcock / MathWorks / @richardthe3rd
- Prabhakar Kumar / MathWorks / @prabhakk-mw
- Sarah Gibson / 2i2c / @sgibson91
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / @manics
- Mridul Seth / GESIS, Anaconda / @MridulS
- Georgiana Dolocan / 2i2c / @georgianaelena
- Samuel Gaist / Idiap / @sgaist

## Introductions

If this is your first time attending the meeting, add your name below and we will ask you to introduce yourself on the call :)

- Richard Alcock
- Prabhakar Kumar

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Sarah:** Launch of Collaboration Café next month
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/617>
  - more breakout rooms, active collaboration, less talking in one big group
  - Georgiana leading maintenance room

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- None reported

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Min** (2m): JupyterHub 4.0 beta <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/issues/4350>
  - Made some fixes to address some frustrations
  - Small major release, there are some other things but not critical
  - Try to get the docs in shape, but can do a beta release without for now
- **Richard Alcock** (10m): Jupyter Server Proxy on Windows
  - MathWorks is interested in Windows support in jupyter-server-proxy to support of MATLAB kernel. Would like to discuss the best approaches to working on this.
  - MatLab kernel relies on jupyter-server-proxy
  - kernel talks to matlab via server proxy
  - can also launch matlab web IDE via server proxy
  - Testing on Windows critical, for PR and future - GH Actions make this easier
    - Get unit/integration tests to pass on Windows
    - Tests might not cover MATLAB cases, may need new
    - Get Yuvi in the loop, who reviewed previous PR
    - asyncio subprocess may have improved in last 2 years - still unstable/unreliable on Windows
    - proactor vs selector eventloop complicate things for asyncio subprocess support on Windows
    - subprocess-based approach like kernels may be the easiest way to be cross-platform
  - See <https://github.com/jupyterhub/simpervisor/issues/6> and <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/pull/181>
- **Simon** (10m): 3 JupyterHub repositories submitted to the Jupyter Security vulnerability scanning programme
  - EU funding to evaluate open source security
  - JupyterHub
  - zero-to-jupyterhub
  - kubespawner
  - could spin up a deployment for them to test with, if we have somewhere we can deploy. Do we have that? Maybe 2i2c?
    - Email hello@2i2c.org
  - Relevant to jupyterhub 4 beta, which has security changes
- **Simon** (10m): BinderHub with AWS ECR
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/1623>
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/pull/1637>
    - In trying to set this up for the federation, Erik and Sarah discovered that the image repo had to exist in the registry _before_ pushing, which is currently a unique situation and not covered <https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/pull/2467#issuecomment-1405338819> (this is being addressed)
    - tokens expire after a few hours, so we have to request new tokens for each build
    - currently implemented as microservice
    - microservice vs Python API: Python API requires rebuilding/custom BinderHub image, microservice deployed/upgraded separately
    - Maybe split PR to just the time-limited token support for now
- Other potential topics?
  - LTI13: support or drop? <https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator/issues/127>
  - Some more love for traefik proxy?
    - now supports traefik v2
    - needs some backward-compatibility work to fix some changes for v2 to be less breaking
    - needs activity-tracking before it can be merged into z2jh, which should be feasible via metrics
    - simplest path to z2jh will be to swap into chp as-is, and _not_ merge with existing autohttps traefik instance
    - seem to be issues with unmaintained consul and etcd clients
