# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - August

## Meeting details

**Date:** Thursday, August 15, 7am UTC
**Videoconference link:** https://calpoly.zoom.us/my/jupyter

The call will start with a quick round of updates from everyone present (you can pass if you want to), followed by bigger agenda items. There will be no feedback/questions on the 60s updates. Questions/discussion on the larger agenda items will be moderated by a speaker list (see end of this hackmd).

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name | institution | GitHub handle
* Tim Head | Jupyter/Binder | @betatim
* Sarah Gibson | The Alan Turing Institute | @sgibson91
* Carol Willing | Jupyter/Binder | @willingc


## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

* [name=myname] My update!
* [name=Sarah] Turing Institute (planning) to join the BinderHub Federation! :rocket: 
    * Discussion/creation for the Azure credit request/proposal are happening in this issue: https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/1124
    * Please feel free to contribute! :sparkles:
    * Also, would a Binder Operator like to be a collaborator so I'm not the sole failure point?
* [name=Tim] federation... we need to improve our detection of when a cluster is unhealthy to take them offline automatically. Started thinking about sponsors for our cloud bills (again)

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

* [name=myname] My report!
* [name=Carol] 5 million notebooks on GitHub :D
    * AMAZING! :tada: - [name=Sarah]


## Agenda items

This is what we'll cover in the meeting (we have about 60m in total). We'll copy the proposed agenda topics above here just before the meeting.

* Add agenda item here [name, estimated time for conversation]
* [name=Tim] (late to the party) State of our documentation
    * it receives ~100-200 visits a day (I think) so not a lot
    * high bounce rates (60% or more)
    * should we do something about it?
    * if yes, what is a good way forward to break stuff down into small chunks of work?
    * [name=Sarah] We should talk about small changes we can begin with in Oslo. Maybe in the future we could host a Jupyter/Binder documentation workshop? I think BinderHub in particular would benefit from a single page of setup instructions so the user doesn't need to know where the "correct" place to click is.
    * Sarah's afterthought: But having a single page of documentation for each cloud provider would mean that when explicit BinderHub stuff changes (not cloud stuff), this would have to be updated in multiple places and would be difficult to keep up to date :tired_face: Big projects are complicated!

