---
title: November 2020
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - November 2020

- **Date:** 2020-11-04
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PST
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2020-11-04/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / \@rcthomas
- Shreyas Cholia / NERSC|LBL / \@shreddd
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Mike Milligan / MSI@UMN / \@mbmilligan
- Kevin Paul / NCAR / \@kmpaul
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Compute Canada - Université Laval / \@cmd-ntrf
- Jeffrey Miller / ORNL / \@millerjl1701
- Ryan Prout / ORNL
- Spencer Ward / ORNL

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Rollin:** Working on Shifter (Docker) image selection at Hub service, prototype working, could demo at a future meeting, targeting Dec for deployment
- **Rollin:** Moving deployment from a Rancher 1 to Rancher 2 (k8s) deployment also targeting Dec for deployment, could talk about that also at future meeting
- **Mike**: MSI is moving main cluster from Torque to SLURM, so work ongoing to convert and update our deployment
    - Need help from Carol to set up pushing to PyPI
    - Dummy release of batchspawner 1.0.1, using GH actions
    - Work in progress (see below)
- **Kevin**: We have a release of [Jupyter-Forward](https://jupyter-forward.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) which is serving as our alternative for not have sysadmin privileges on our JupyterHub. Curious to know what other HPCers think about tools like this.

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- New release of [Jupyter-Forward](https://jupyter-forward.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    - Command line tool from remote machine
    - Bundles up setting up ssh tunnel etc
    - Side-steps hub
    - Launch command can be submission to queue
    - Puts the responsibility of intentionally waiting for a resource with a lot of contention more clearly onto the user (instead of waiting at hub all day)
    - What about expanding scope beyond JupyterLab (start other things with it) there are other tools for which there is no "hub" -- Félix
- add item here
- add item here

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Shreyas, Michael, Rollin, et al (10-15 min?):** JupyterCon retrospective
    - Enterprise deployments, a few HPC deployment talks, mostly known to us already
    - Notebooker etc might contain a lot of useful or reusable patterns, things that might be worth deploying for users
    - Xeus kernel, debuggers, but not a plan to mainline those into the standard kernels
- **Zach (20-30 min?):** JupyterHub setups at ORNL
    - JupyterHub is a "birthright"
    - At ORNL JupyterHub gets deployed in various places upon request from researchers
    - Pushing the idea of a central entrypoint for JupyterHub, use BatchSpawner, WrapSpawner, ProfileSpawner to see what resources there are
    - Otherwise it's repeating the same process every time with every group from the ground up
    - Need higher availability for a institution-wide solution, would probably start with a lower user count but would go up like deploying gitlab etc (but is the hub the HA problem actually, it isn't at at NERSC really...)
    - Multiple security zones, LDAP instances that can't be used, makes things more challenging
    - "ProfileSpawner" for Authenticators?  Is that a JupyterHub responsibility or some other solution (Dex oauth)?  JWT?
- JupyterLab 3 + JupyterHub - does anyone know if the integration works? - Shreyas
    - Rollin says no (haven't tried to run off master but that may make it work)
- **Mike** - trying to debug Github Actions pipeline for pushing batchspawner/wrapspawner releases to PyPI
    - Fixed a bug during the meeting
- **Rollin** - Fake batch spawner in BatchSpawner so I don't have to handle sshspawner separately, which needs a bunch of the same logic?
    - What about systemd (Zach)?
- add item here (include your name and estimated time for discussion).
