---
title: December 2020
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - December 2020

- **Date:** 2020-12-02
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PST
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2020-12-02/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Kevin / NCAR / @kmpaul
- Félix-Antoine / Université Laval, Compute Canada / @cmd-ntrf
- Jeffrey / ORNL / @millerjl1701
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Richard Drast / Aalto / @rkdarst
- Michael Milligan / MSI@UMN / @mbmilligan
- Shane / NERSC / @scanon

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **NAME:** What you'd like to update on
- **Rollin:** Notes from last meeting on team-compass, PR/issue
- **Kevin:** Hit another sysadmin blocking issue at NCAR, does anyone have interest in setting up a "mock HPC system" on AWS or GCP or otherwise for dev/testing of JupyterHub-based services?  (e.g., Binder for HPC and more)  If yes, then we can discuss below.
  - For another local test, I [name=rkdarst] used https://github.com/giovtorres/docker-centos7-slurm (also https://github.com/giovtorres/slurm-docker-cluster for multi-container)
  - +1
  - For more elaborate setup, have a look at Magic Castle: https://github.com/computecanada/magic_castle which can setup a Slurm cluster + JupyterHub in AWS, Azure, GCP and OpenStack
- **Félix-Antoine:** Where are we with batchspawner PR #187 - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/187 ?
- **Michael:** Worked out the kinks in the CI for batchspawner, and there's a release out on PyPI.  Never had a wrapspawner release on PyPI but Michael is look at getting that out on PyPI (make sure no issues, `setup.py` works etc)
    - Richard: Made an action to check tag against version in the package to make sure they are the same.  Seems like a common need, useful in his case.

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- add item here
- add item here

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Multi:** PR 187
    - Any objection to get this merged and out?
    - No.  Original PR was handling the unknown job state etc
    - Some places are already running the original branch
    - Question about whether unknown state should be in JupyterHub: No, see https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/issues/3171
    - Looks like it's OK to merge...
    - How soon to do a release?
        - Merge (done now), give people a week to bang on it
        - Make RC release, another week
        - Thumbs up next month then make release
- **Rollin:**
    - Talks about wrapspawner #41, will work on it
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/41
        - Traitlets expert who can help if it turns out to be that?
