---
title: November 2021
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - November 2021

- **Date:** 2021-11-03
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-11-03/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Min RK / Simula / @minrk
- Jens Henrik Göbbert / Jülich Supercomputing Centre / @j.goebbert
- Zach Price / ORNL /
- Shreyas Cholia / LBL / @shreddd
- Richard Darst / Aalto / @rkdarst
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ UMN / @mbmilligan
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Compute Canada - Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / @manics


## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update
-


## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **@j.goebbert** redesign of JupyterHub landing page
    - More and more features on the JSC landing/home page
    - Users were getting confused, getting passed from one page to another
    - The options spawner-type functionality comes up as a modal on the home page
    - For every system, for every JupyterLab, for login nodes, for every kind of compute node
    - Each user starts with a short list of defaults and then they can come up with more options
    - What's available depends on what's been installed on the file system
    - Spawner starts a script that decides what to do
    - Ability to let users add their own JupyterLab with their own weird extensions
    - Can a user share a configuration with with other users?
        - The hub picks up the installation so users can share with each other this way
        - Installation on a project's space on the file system shares it with everone else on the project
    - Is there a standard "base" set of extensions that power users can use to create their own?
        - Based on easy build so users can base off that
        - Curating some extensions (taking away...)
        - Lots of extensions are a burden...
    - Modules used to extend the labextension search path
        - Done dynamically in the start script
        - Not part of the install/configuration
- **Simon** BinderHub in a Box
    - Runs on k8s, scales well, really powerful, but it is a pain to install locally for testing
    - Try to host BinderHub just on Docker?  Turns out not as difficult as you might think
    - Started a bigger discussion about abstraction layers?
    - Need: r2d, hub (nothing that says k8s is intrinsic)
    - Main PR: https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/pull/1364
    - Demo: https://katacoda.com/manics/scenarios/binderhub-in-a-box
        - Platform for infrastructure learning
        - Spins up a VM... actually look at the demo, it's very nicely documented
        - Repo2docker runs _locally_, so for more than a few users it needs to be pretty beefy VM
        - Demo is done with docker, but you can use podman (podman daemon spawner, and fake docker registry)
        - BinderHub is running as a JupyterHub service here
    - Minimizing Privilege for Building HPC Containers: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.07508.pdf
- k3s some exploration, it can be done, but teaching k8s is tedious :)
- SC21 activities?
    - No Interactive HPC workshop
    - Felix is demo'ing latest Magic Castle at Training and Tools HPC workshop
- ISC22
    - Program committee?
        - Shreyas find people will do everything from his group
        - 
- JupyterHub 2.0
    - **PEOPLE SHOULD TEST**
        - [Feedback topic on discourse](https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/jupyterhub-2-0-beta/10841)
    - RBAC
        - Roles and scopes, how permissions work in JupyterHub
        - More granular permissions: useful for collaboration and RTC in JupyterLab
    - Spawning changes
        - Small change, JupyterHub will not pass its own args as command line -> environment variables
        - The only ones passed are the ones that user configuration has explicitly given
        - If you look for --ip then you may want to watch out
        - => batchspawner-singleuser
            - Arguments are injected for remote port selection but
            - Not parsing the command line
            - code:
              ```
              cmd_path = which(sys.argv[1])
              sys.argv = sys.argv[1:] + ["--port={}".format(port)]
              run_path(cmd_path, run_name="__main__")
              ```
            - Environment variable information carrying port info should defer to command line but needs test
        - ... can we get port selection on the remote side (the singleuser executable)
            - Richard has a draft PR
                - 2 exclusive cases...  need a scheme that works for both!
                - Can't move everything over to the server because it doesn't always have the info it needs (servers running in contairers know the bind port but not the connect port) - it can be handled but needs careful thought.
                - Could have a property of the spawner.
                - https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/2727 (old, needs someone with either knoweledge or time to concentrate)
        -  
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Felix says he'll try it out with Hub 2
            - Report to Discourse
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs



