---
title: October 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - October 2021

- **Date:** 2021-10-06
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-10-06/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Aric Werner / NCAR / @aawerner
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / @manics
- Richard Darst / Aalto University / @rkdarst
- Zach Price / ORNL /
- Michael Milligan / MSI - U of Minnesota / @mbmilligan
- Rick Wagner / UCSD / @rpwagner

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update


## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Aric: are there any other HPC sites using Cylc/CylcHub, and are you able to integrate this into your existing JupyterHub instance?
    - NERSC has had one request, evaluating as one of several approaches to workflow management, need to decide and set expectations on support
    - Integrating other apps besides Jupyter into JupyterHub has come up a few times, another example is MatLab, being able to start MatLab sessions from Jupyter/JupyterLab (a little bit different jupyter-server-proxy); what about license server?
    - Mathworks jupyter-matlab-proxy: https://github.com/mathworks/jupyter-matlab-proxy
    - RStudio started putting things in that make it harder to launch from JupyterHub, seem to be going their own way; network isolation
- Félix-Antoine: do we know anyone at NCSA interested in JupyterHub and JupyterHub for HPC?
    - Kay Avila kayavila@illinois.edu
- Zach: JupyterHub Services suggestions? We've deployed VSCode to good reception, looking for other suggestions
    - Deployment is through k8s, each container has ssh access to submit HPC jobs, they don't run notebooks on the cluster (but they cross mount filesystems).  
    - ARM deployment:
        - https://api.github.com/repos/cdr/code-server/releases/latest
        - https://github.com/dirkcgrunwald/jupyter_codeserver_proxy-.git
        - UX: 
    - https://www.gitpod.io/blog/openvscode-server-launch
    - https://github.com/betatim/vscode-binder
        - [Try on mybinder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/betatim/vscode-binder/master?urlpath=lab)
    - Matlab, TensorFlow
    - JupyterLab-Slurm, NVDashboard
- Mike question about OOD vs JupyterHub:
    - Main discussion point was around the breadth and depth of the JupyterHub community and how it represents leverage to HPC deployments
    - Are there places that have done both?  None come to mind due to burden of support issues.
    - Skill set difference between the two (e.g. Python vs Rails) for your staff
    - Put together a couple of slides for the next convenient Hubs meeting (is there a role for Hub to become generalized proxy or is that out of scope), also potentially have OOD
    - what about improving documentation of tools like the session proxy (from the point of view of computing centers). I have used it for several things, but it is magic to me. And some sort of general list of "what all can be proxied through jupyter" ?
    - What about inviting the OOD/OSC people to come to this meeting to present, to hear from them?
    - https://github.com/ideonate/jhsingle-native-proxy is something else you might be interested in, instead of being a proxy run inside jupyter it replaces the singleuser-server
    - Just thought of another cool example of a proxied app https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-remote-desktop-proxy/
- Jupyter Community Workshop on Security:
    - OSC had agreed to host April/May but...
    - Current sense about state of travel and permission to travel is very uncertain still
    - May shift to doing something online/virtual
    - In any case goals for the workshop are making progress in some sense...
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
