---
title: June 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - June 2021

- **Date:** 2021-06-02
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-06-02/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / \@rcthomas
- Shreyas Cholia / LBL - NERSC / \@scholia 
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval, Compute Canada / \@cmd-ntrf
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Jens Henrik Göbbert / Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich Supercomputing Centre / 
- Michael / MSI \@ UMN / \@mbmilligan
- Aric Werner / NCAR / \@aawerner

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **NAME:** What you'd like to update on
- **Rollin:** Jupyter Security Workshop Planning: https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/jupyter-security-workshop-progress/9370
    - Blog post shortly
    - Decide venue by September
    - Topic on Discourse

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Standing Items:
    - Batchspawner check-in
        - Some new issue arising, need to review and understand if those are new or come from having a release (attention)
        - MM will look through the issues and see what to do
    - Wrapspawner check-in
        - At last call, goal was release, then deep dive on issues
        - What are the top issues?
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/41
                - With pull request: https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/pull/45
        - We need testing!
            - Frameworks for testing?
            - Pull requests welcomed!
            - Open an issue with a help-wanted tag, ask folks to contribute to that
- **Shreyas** Jupyter RTC - Collaborative Notebook Editing
    - How does this impact HPC / Multiuser deployments and security? References:
        - https://github.com/jupyterlab/rtc
        - https://jupyterlab-rtc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    - It's running a process owned by one user on the back end
    - Everyone attached can see all the first owner's goodies (env, files, etc)
        - Some precedent for shared remote desktops especially for support at some places
        - Other places not
        - Possibly through special users like collab/project users
        - Are there guardrails we can put in place?
    - How to know who did what in a shared notebook/provenance?
    - Next step they are working on is how to get people to auth at the hub
    - Demo: https://github.com/firasm/RTC_test
    - Analogies to Overleaf/ShareLatex, Google Docs
    - Containers can help possibly share only a subset of what you want to share
    - Restrict to restricted container environments?
    - Communicate requirements upwards!
        - Otherwise "it works in Binder good to go"
        - How to do the communicating?
            - There's a monthly call around RTC, people are encouraged to participate
            - https://github.com/jupyterlab/rtc#project-meetings
    - To test there is a requirements file, it's in 3.1a, just add `--collaborative` I think
- **Zach** How are folks handling "too many options" in Batch/Wrap/Profiles?
    - Do users just have to use lots and lots of menus
        - Rollin showed some preset stuff
        - A service alongside the hub for managing user preferences
        - Intern will come to a future meeting to show his extension of this
    - **Jens** Having groups
        - Beside the login button there's groups as a feature
        - This simplifies things like user training events or hackathons
        - Leveraging groups lets you have some presets
