---
title: February 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - February 2021

- **Date:** 2021-02-03
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PST
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-02-03/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Michael / MSI @ UMN / @mbmilligan
- Kevin / NCAR / @kmpaul
- Félix-Antoine / Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf
- Richard / Aalto University
- Jeffrey / ORNL / @millerjl1701

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **NAME:** What you'd like to update on
- **Michael** MSI rolled out a big Jupyterhub update this month! PBS -> Slurm, Hub (something ancient) -> 1.1, Puppet 3 -> Puppet 5
- **Kevin**: Starting work on an AWS deployment of a dev/testing platform for HPC services, based on what we've learned from [Magic Castle](https://github.com/ComputeCanada/magic_castle).  (Thanks for the suggestion!  Reach out if you want at kpaul@ucar.edu.)
- **Félix-Antoine**: E-CAM is working on a project named [LearnHPC](https://www.e-cam2020.eu/learnhpc-dynamic-creation-of-hpc-infrastructure-for-educational-purposes/). I will invite the project PI Alan O'Cais to our next meeting.

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Kevin**: Thanks everyone for the suggestions to look at Magic Castle!!!

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- JupyterLab 3 migrations
    - **Rollin/NERSC**
        - Dev deployment running, planning to deploy in March
        - Notes:
            - Change `cmd` to `jupyter-labhub`
            - Add `JUPYTERHUB_SINGLEUSER_APP` to `environment` as "jupyter_server.serverapp.ServerApp"
                - Needed for some labextensions
                - Is the future default
            - Centrally-deployed labextension migrations:
                - jupyterlab-toc went to core
                - ipympl/matplotlib is just ipympl via pip/conda
                - plotly+plotlywidgets stays the same (labextension install)
                - jupyterlab-git is waiting on nbdime
                - nbresuse -> jupyter-resource-usage
                    - Reliable way to get the upper limit?
                - local projects: jupyterlab-{recents,favorites,slurm} will be migrated
            - User labextensions:
                - Some users are trying to test theirs, may have reports...
    - Felix: JupyterLab-lmod extension seemed to work without modification
        - Is there any plan or supporting 2 and 3 at the same time?
        - Doesn't seem to be anything there.
    - Spencer@ORNL: Acceptance testing going on now
        - Config changes as above
    - **Other?**
- Batchspawner check-in
    - In December, discussed a new release
    - This month, had a bunch of PRs merged by Erik
    - All things that would have been merged
    - Mike asks does it look like BatchSpawner is in a good place for release?
        - No objections heard
        - Bleeding-edge batchspawner is running at MSI OK
        - Enough features accumulated so the minor version can increment => 1.1
        - Mike says he'll do it this month!
- Wrapspawner check-in
    - Release pending
        - Haven't ever done one but are in a good place to do it
    - Do we need release notes / other documentations?
        - Is README OK for release? Yes
    - Version number?
        - 1.0 this month
    - No action on Rollin's issue with environment settings (close)
    - Issue with auth_state stuff:
        - Issue with remote authenticator
        - Login form never shows so hooks don't fire
        - Had to hack around and uses all the hooks
        - The auth state hook fires on auto update
- Jupyter Docker stacks?
    - Dependency hell?
    - Talking about automating builds 
    - repo2docker at the system level of customizations?
    - mpi4py for instance needing fairly recent MPICH, user can't add onto that afterward unless they're careful
