---
title: April 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - April 2021

- **Date:** 2021-04-07
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PST
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-04-07/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Michael Milligan / UMN MSI
- Jens Henrik Goebbert / FZJ

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **NAME:** What you'd like to update on
- **Rollin** Jupyter Community Workshop series is coming back to life, "plans for plans" for security-focused workshop will be coming together soon.

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Standing Items:
    - Batchspawner check-in
        - Batchspawner 1.1 released
            - On PyPI, open for business for new PRs!
        - Acceptance/acquiescence on reformatting
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/208
            - Now outdated needs to be brought up to date
            - Ask Erik to update the PR then MM will merge
        - If there was a push to upstream something:
            - Remote port stuff would really be nice to have upstreamed because multiple projects need it
            - Port range implementation is also a feature people have been asking for
    - Wrapspawner check-in
        - Reformatting PR?
        - Certain issues with traitlets
        - Code needs a pass to catch up to modern
            - ProfileSpawner prevents using internal SSL
        - Release in current state pretty soon
        - But after that, want to deep dive into some issues
- Kubespawner - cross cluster? (Zach Price):
    - ARM (ORNL group) has access to 2 HPC clusters, one at OLCF, one not
    - JupyterHub that allows launching on HPC or not (2 profiles)
    - OLCF also has a new hub deployment they'd like to use but trying to avoid users having to know the differences between the 2
    - So one hub in one cluster wants to start notebooks in another cluster, is there a way to do that?
    - Single hub at a big instution, main problem is a common identity management system
    - Jens asked how people handle MFA:
        - Basically everyone does their own thing
- https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/2726
    - rkdarst: help editing to get it in?
- Startup time when launching a new JupyterLab (Jens Henrik)
    - They just switched from home-grown Docker to k8s
    - Performance testing (why 15-20 s to launch?)
    - Partially parallel file system
    - Any nice solutions?
        - Jens: Turn off checking build update! 7 seconds!
        - Richard observed some things with Jupyter Docker stacks with chown'ing, but Jens is doing bare metal GPFS
        - Rollin:
            - Login node setup is over GPFS
            - Compute node setup is over Cray DVS, there the filesystem is mounted read-only w/client-side caching on
        - Where is the time going and what JupyterLab is this?
            - Lots of requests to NFS
        - Median start-up time at MSI looks like 20-40s
        - Richard observed 22s at Aalto during call
        - What kind of overhead does a non-Jupyter pod get?  Is this Jupyter specific?  Start a pod and run mdtest :)
