---
title: May 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - May 2021

- **Date:** 2021-05-04
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-05-04/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Shane / NERSC / @scanon
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Richard / Aalto / rkdarst
- Aric Werner / NCAR / @aawerner
- Jared Baker / NCAR / @jbaksta
- Rick Wagner / UCSD / @rpwagner
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval /@cmd-ntrf
- Mary Thomas / UCSD, SDSC / @marypthomas
- Scott Sakai / UCSD, SDSC / @scottsakai
- Jens Henrik Goebbert / FZJ, JSC / @jhgoebbert
- Thomas Mendoza / LLNL / @tgmachina

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **NAME:** What you'd like to update on
- **Rick, Rollin** Jupyter Community Workshop series is coming back to life, "plans for plans" for security-focused workshop will be coming together soon.
    - Want to announce dates and place in Sep
    - Need to make sure people can travel, be in same place when we have workshop
    - If you have ideas to share on security please feel free to let us know about it by email
- 

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- Wrapspawner release 1.0
- Michael is out this month on paternity leave

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- SDSC Jupyter Proxy Service
    - Project is called "Satellite"
    - Jupyter initially appeared as "plain-text back door into the cluster"
    - "Make the right things easier than the wrong things"
    - Satellite:
        - Invoke client, get URL, notebook shows up
        - Self-service https reverse-proxy
        - Shell-based utility to orchestrate RP and Slurm
        - https://github.com/sdsc-hpc-training-org/satellite
    - Reverse proxy:
        - RP provides SSL termination
        - users create/destroy mappings
        - short-lived random subdomains
        - satellite api only usable by wget/curl
        - https://github.com/sdsc-hpc-training-org/reverse-proxy
    - start-jupyter, Galyleo:
        - Batch jobs, issues with templates and integrating Singularity
        - Open OnDemand portal on Expanse (have Matlab, RStudio, want to integrate Satellite)
        - Galyleo repo: https://github.com/sdsc-hpc-training-org/satellite
    - --transport=ipc
    - Streetwise guide: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1X_0hHYpQcCwrwbPMGSHuTeys7KPW3bC1/edit#slide=id.g8cad2b19f4_0_1024
    - Shane is trying it on expanse during the call :)
    - Questions:
        - What proxy service are you using (traefik, CHP?)
            - Looks like it is dynamically configuring apache
        - Is their an open repo for the API? (Answered)
        - Is there any user documentation?  I couldn't quickly find it via Google. (Answered)
            - https://github.com/mkandes/galyleo
        - Rather obvious one: Hub enables subdomains, provides proxy; what were the issues w/Hub that made you think you needed your own approach?
            - Already have trust established (Q: e2e SSL)
            - Issues local to SDSC when starting w/Hub
            - Want to prevent users from running Jupyter themselves full stop (if they go around Hub)
            - Concern about where hub lives with respect to trust boundary of cluster, can be addresses
        - Slides available? distributable?
            - yes, and yes
- Standing Items:
    - Batchspawner check-in
        - Need to check in with outstanding PRs now that autoformat PR is merged, will need to rebase
    - Wrapspawner check-in
        - At last call, goal was release, then deep dive on issues
        - What are the top issues?
    - JupyterLab 3 deployment news
        - NERSC
            - Pushed back to May 19 at NERSC but will happen
            - ~All needed extensions are working now
            - One [issue](https://github.com/jupyter-server/jupyter_server/issues/495) found and fixed in jupyter_server
