---
title: August 2021
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - August 2021

- **Date:** 2021-08-04
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-08-04/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Kevin / NCAR / @kmpaul
- Rick / UCSD / @rpwagner
- Josh / NERSC / @Josh0823
- Zach Price / ORNL
- Michael Milligan / U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Shreyas Cholia / NERSC - LBL / @shredddd

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update
- **Rollin:** Promised to write up UI work somewhere
- **Rollin/Rick**: Security team developments
    - https://github.com/jupyter/security/
- **Mike**: Jupyter community call, announced Batchspawner and Wrapspawner releases
- **Shreyas**: Should people from this call be on other calls?
    - Rollin will add link to calendar
    - Should this meeting be more advertised?

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Name:** Your agenda item
- **Rollin/Shreyas/Josh**: Entrypoint service prototype demo
    - Josh is an intern working at NERSC, projects:
        - jupyterlab announcemenet extension (shows announcements from the announcement hub service)
        - jupyterlab extension to let admins customize the help menu
        - jupyterlab slurm
        - JupyterHub entrypoint service
            - Enable users to pick where JupyterLab comes from (environments, container)
            - Spawner picks up metadata from service needed to update .cmd
            - Currently refactoring in prep for deployment/release, maybe September
- **Kevin/Shreyas**: NBViewer/clonenotebooks discussion
    - We can discuss this offline, too.  I haven't heard of progress on this at NCAR, yet, so it's not critical.
    - Next steps 
        - go through current codebase and identify issues and fixes needed to clean up (Shreyas + NCAR)
        - Shreyas will dig up docker-compose setup for local development
- **Rollin/Rick**: Security:
    - Rollin attended Governance meeting last week, asked how to integrate security workshop work w/Project
    - The new governance model included a slot for a security subproject.  Result:
        -  Creation of https://github.com/jupyter/security/
        -  Creation of Github team for Jupyter security
        -  Discourse post from governance level announcing the subprojects
        -  Expectations from the Project:
            -  Adopting the above as scaffolding for organization
            -  A page jupyter.org/security shall be created
            -  Regular meetings will be scheduled (meeting project expectations/requirements)
        -  How we are integrating our activities:
            -  Make workshop-associated milestones/deliverables be part of this project
            -  CII badge
            -  Workshop itself and outcomes
            -  Best practices guide
            -  Trusted CI engagement
            -  Gathering deployment experiences/interviews
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - 45 addressed the issue 41 which is still open
        - Maybe check in on that issue and see if people are using the release or head
        - See also #44 --- reading server is needed to make it exists, may resolve several other issues
