---
title: July 2021
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - July 2021

- **Date:** 2021-07-07
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2021-07-07/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Michael M / MSI @ UMN / @mbmilligan
- Zach Price / ORNL /
- Aric Werner / NCAR / @aawerner

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Rollin:** Security workshop planning is going forward

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Standing Items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Calculation of common_traits w/traitlets>=5:
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/41
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/pull/45
        - Testing needed:
            - Frameworks for testing?
                - Most useful part of batchspawner testing has been integration testing
                - Catches changes in jupyterhub that need to be addressed in batchspawner (e.g. changes to the ORM)
                - Interfaces are pretty stable but not fixed
                - WrapSpawner's use of interfaces from jupyterhub are kind of less documented so it may uncover more useful problems to solve
                - Unit tests would be ok but you need to focus on those special parts of the Hub interface
                - => Make an issue on wrapspawner about testing, using the batchspawner testing as a starting point, setting up wrapspawner to wrap a LocalProcessSpawner and hit it with tests that way
                    - Bumped old issue https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/19
            - Pull requests welcomed!
            - Open an issue with a help-wanted tag, ask folks to contribute to that
- **Mike**: Can Rollin make the customizations done for the console page UI be published?
    - Yes, Rollin will put together a demo and blog-type post and be available to talk about it.
- Short meeting!
- **name**: **topic**

