---
title: July 2022
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - July 2022

- **Date:** 2022-07-06
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2022-07-06/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ UMN / @mbmilligan
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf
- James Beal/ Sanger Institute / @jbeal-work
- Rick Wagner / UCSD / @rpwagner
- Jens Henrik Göbbert / Jülich Supercomputing Centre / @jhgoebbert
- Kevin Paul / NCAR / @kmpaul

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update
- **Félix-Antoine Fortin**: JupyterHub team meetings and notes page has moved to https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - ~~CI OK?~~
        - Current PRs to review
        - Users overwriting script template
            - Created issue to not encourage users to do this
            - Documentation issue, not code issue
            - Some better/newer config examples for README
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - EPA team contribution PR
        - They've been working on responding to review
- Workshop/conference season:
    - ISC 22 Interactive HPC
    - SC 22 Urgent+Interactive HPC workshop
    - PEARC, next week, Rick + Mike will be there
- [JupyterHub for Workshops Proof-of-Concept](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1axoa4u9O6fcmBCFgRvx8RVeVGgQ8LhzcD5CcSQiZ9Ek/edit?usp=sharing) (Rick)
    - Want Jupyter for workshops with some code, data
        - e.g. summer school, training class
        - BYOD bring your own data
        - computing environments may be ephemeral
        - enable instructors/workshop leads to manage
    - Make it easy to stand up hub for workshops
    - Components:
        - Hub; Globus (w/Globus roots); GitHub repos for Dockerfiles config, etc; file system
        - Globus connect server w/guest collection, globus groups
        - `c.GlobusOAuthenticator.allowed_globus_groups` instructors, students
    - Data 
        - Accessible via guest collection
        - Notebook bind mounts the collections
        - Includes a "welcome.md" page with links to everything (RO) for the training/workshop etc
        - => The welcome.md page is more useful than expected
    - Compute
        - DockerSpawner w/some pre-made allowed images
    - Documentation
        - Custom login template points students to Globus Group to request membership
        - Instructors approve
    - Observations
        - Usernames via Globus needs work (different IdPs have different username patterns) ... namespace collisions
        - DockerSpawner escaping is an issue... username scheme that helps avoid collisions across IdPs?
        - "Running notebooks in shared folders is as bad as you think," use `FileCheckpoints.checkpoint_dir` helps a bit
        - Customizing templates was frustrating (didn't want to mess with css though)
        - 
    - Demo
        - Concern about collisions, has some gnarly usernames
        - Terminal drops you into work
        - Welcome file has links to slides off the server (new tab) etc
        - Had discussed nbgitpuller but instructors just wanted to upload notebooks and touch shared files live
        - Link to Globus Connect
        - They can host their SIF files in their public data dir (totally safe you can use it trust Rick!
    - Q&A
        - Can share?  Rick would like to do a write-up, wanted some feedback from the group
            - Change for on-prem, suggests a single VM
            - Is there filesystem with globus endpoint/guest collection
            - Delegating management to the instructors
            - Or w/k8s you can do z2jh
        - Hub itself is an OAuth client
        - How did you learn what you needed to know to write the post-auth hook?
            - Having worked for Globus helps :)
            - Had to be a way to trigger an action after a user was authenticated
            - Hard part about hooks: Not knowing what part of hub is running it
        - As things get more complicated, the config includes more and more code
            - Has documentation kept up so that a new person knows how to "figure out how to figure out" a config? 
        - Meta question: How to capture good stuff like this?
            - Start building out in a repo that already exists...?
            - Rollin: Do a survey of existing things that may have been abandoned and see about reviving them
                - FAQ, institutional mailing list etc
- Scaling issues?

## Links Shared
Off-topic:
Try to integrate VSCode in JupyterLab (behind a JupyterHub) kind of fails for security issues or non-support for URL-subpaths. Anyway, ... :
- https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-openvscodeserver-proxy
- https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-codeserver-proxy
