---
title: January 2022
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - January 2022

- **Date:** 2021-01-05
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2022-01-05/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Michael Milligan / MSI - U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Zach Price / ORNL /
- Eskild Eriksen / Quansight / @iameskild

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update
- **Kevin:** Sorry I can't make this again. I have a regular conflicting meeting that I am trying to move. So, hopefully I will see uou all next month!

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.
 
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/44
        - Having to vivify the `self.child_spawner.server`
        - Action:
            - Add comment to the fix
            - Merge the PR, close related issues
            - Open issue on the line saying we should consider a better fix
        - 1.0.1 release in light of #45?
            - Last release was April/May
            - No reason not to do a release including this fix
            - Will happen this month (Michael)
- JupyterHub 2.0 tests
    - [name=Rollin] Tried JupyterHub 2.0.0 on test hub 
        - WrapSpawner w/ BatchSpawner (no changes) and custom SSH Spawner (tiny changes) were just fine
        - Hub services w/web UI now need OAuth, not too hard to change for services we control (in progress)
    - Check any documentation to make sure it's clear that there are no known issues with the newer versions
- Workshop/conference season:
    - ISC 22 Interactive HPC workshop accepted
    - PEARC Tutorials / Workshops Jan 21
    - SciPy CfP is out, deadline Feb 11 talks/papers, tutorials following week
    - SC 22 Workshop CfP out, Feb 25 deadline for workshops
        - PyHPC?

## Links Shared
