---
title: October 2022
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - October 2022

- **Date:** 2022-10-05
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2022-10-05/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas (maybe...)
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ UMN / @mbmilligan
- Ryan Lovett / UC Berkeley / @ryanlovett
- James Beal/ Sanger Institute/ @jbeal-work
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval - The Alliance / @cmd-ntrf
- Simon / University of Dundee / @manics
- Min RK / Simula / @minrk

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- As discussed last month, **Batchspawner 1.2** is now released to PyPI
-  Ryan: [portwrap](https://github.com/ryanlovett/portwrap) for protecting jupyter-server-proxy services
   - Proof of concept right now 
   - Document administrative changes necessary to support this, as well as add a diagram  
   - Shane Canon has an option using traefik and network namespaces
-  Thomas Kluyver added UNIX socket support to jupyter-server-proxy, tornado, [PR](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/pull/337)

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - 1.2 release - done this month
        - Test matrix 
        - PRs to review
        - Notes with previous discussion https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/2022-09-07.html
        - Users overwriting script template: Docs fix
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - EPA team contribution PR
        - They've been working on responding to review
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/wrapspawner/issues/54
            - Mike will look at confirming JH 1.x setup
- Workshop/conference news:
    - SC22 UrgentHPC workshop Monday Nov 14
- Abandoned things to revive/decide fate of?
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/research-facilities
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-deploy-hpc
    - Next time or when we've got more people
        - Brainstorm how to leverage these
        - Or close them down and do something else
        - Note also https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/316
    - Let's take this to Jupyter Discourse, tag possibly interested folks
    - Feeling is that for this community Batchspawner is kind of the "hub"
    - Document on Batchspawner repo that we have this monthly meeting
    - => Socializing idea of a subproject on HPC/Research deployments?

## Links Shared
