---
title: November 2022
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - November 2022

- **Date:** 2022-11-02
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2022-11-02/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- James Beal/ Sanger Institute/ @jbeal-work
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval - The Alliance / @cmd-ntrf
- Ryan Lovett / UC Berkeley / @ryanlovett

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- Félix-Antoine: I'll be on parental leave from nov 21 to mid-january.
-  

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Still to-do from previous months:
            - PR updating test matrix -> versions to be supported for next release
            - Docs fixing (not overriding master templates)
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
- Workshop/conference news:
    - SC22 UrgentHPC workshop Monday Nov 14
    - JupyterCon 2023
        - Cite des Sciences, Paris 
        - May 10-12
        - https://www.jupytercon.com/
- Abandoned things to revive/decide fate of?
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/research-facilities
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-deploy-hpc
    - Jupyter (not just hub) in HPC subproject?
- Request for assistance/guidance on jupyterhub-singleuser/portwrap integration (ryanlovett)
    - portwrap is a CLI with command you want put in a namespace
    - somewhere in the config instead of invoking jupyter, you could just run portwrap
        - But it wants to run jupyterhub-singleuser
        - How to configure the actual command that jupyterhub-singleuser invokes

## Links Shared
