---
title: May 2022
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - May 2022

- **Date:** 2022-05-04
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2022-05-04/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **GitHub issue:**
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / \@rcthomas
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval - The Alliance / \@cmd-ntrf
- Jens Henrik Göbbert / FZJ/JSC / \@jhgoebbert
- James Beal/ WTSI / \@jbeal-work (github)
- Michael Milligan / MSI \@ UMN / \@mbmilligan
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / \@manics
- Monica Ihli / ORNL / \@MonicaIhli 
- Sarah Bellemare / Universite Laval / \@snoort
- Young Milligan

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your update
- **Félix-Antoine**: Introducing new intern Sarah who might work on JupyterHub and HPC during the summer.
- **James Beal**: I  fixed the problem I had with splitting the proxy and the hub, it was to do with trying to use subclassing which I assumed would work. I have got the effect I want with javascript
    - James will write something up to post to Discourse
    - Maybe contribute as example to wrapspawner
- **Michael Milligan**: center director has mandated OpenOndemand POC here, so we will get some direct comparison vs Jupyterhub
    - https://openondemand.org/
    - Maybe mostly around remote desktop access
- **Jens Henrik Göbbert**: Spawner development for YAML-defined compute resourcs (Kubernetes-manager, UNICORE, etc.) with single UI
    - Lots and lots of compute resources, external resources
    - Makes it easier to deploy

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - need to check CI status, seems to be failing for PRs, from March:
            - pytest run for 3.9 against hub 0.9.6 fails
            - using a deprecated sqlalchemy maybe pinned by hub
            - Plan: drop that combo from the matrix, rerun
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/229
            - Will probably unblock other failed PR tests
        - Worthwhile to do a sweep on batchspawner PRs
            - Which are worth keeping which to close?
            - Plan: Mike will take a look on PRs
        - Some new pull requests
        - Users have been breaking batchspawner by overwriting the script template
            - Created issue to not encourage users to do this
            - Documentation issue, not code issue
            - Some better config examples for README (they're old)
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - EPA team contribution PR - Michael did code review, would like to see some restructuring but support accepting with cleanup
            - Code review by MM yesterday
            - Some restructuring described in response
            - Derived from ProfileSpawner
- Workshop/conference season:
    - ISC 22 Interactive HPC
    - SC 22 Urgent+Interactive HPC workshop accepted
    - PEARC news?
- Elyra?
    - JSC is experimenting with Elyra, wonder if anyone else has taken a look
    - Some modifications to JupyterLab, may not be necessary
    - Can send workflows to e.g. indirectly, Slurm
- June 1 meeting may need a volunteer to host, Rollin will update as we get closer

## Links Shared
