---
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - April 2023

- **Date:** 2023-04-05
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-04-04/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Mridul Seth / Anaconda / @MridulS
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- **Félix-Antoine Fortin**: jupyter-lmod will supports Tmod in the next release. https://github.com/cmd-ntrf/jupyter-lmod

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- **Rollin:** Tested out Traefik proxy (1.0.0b release) with Traefik v2 and it worked after a trailing slash fix https://github.com/jupyterhub/traefik-proxy

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Adding an "HPC" tag to the Discourse
    - Step along the way to subproject?
    - Discourse has categories and tags
        - JupyterLab, JupyterHub are categories
        - "security" and "analytics" are tags
        - Some categories show up as tags too :shrug:
        - Makes sense to have a tag that can be applied across multiple categories (Hub topics, Lab topics, Kernel topics, all could be tagged as HPC issues)
    - Usage of Discourse by Jupyter projects:
        - Reserve GitHub issue trackers for bugs
        - Forward support issues to Discourse
        - => Rollin: Could suggest same, with #hpc tag?
        - IIRC there's a template response or bot JupyterHub uses for this
    - Advertise these meetings on Discourse generally but tag as HPC too.
    - Should we try to gather/list repos that make sense to discuss on Discourse?  Make an announcement about this:
        - BatchSpawner
        - WrapSpawner
        - jupyter-lmod
        - jupyterhub-announcement?
        - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
    - Another topic: Who is running what?  Can we use that as input on the text matrix?  How often do people upgrade their hub?  This is a good way to get feedback.
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - hoping for new release soon
        - want to fix sqlalchemy version issues that cause tests for older versions to spuriously fail
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Options form PR
        - Rollin should move aside that last commit about auto-vivifying server since it breaks later hubs probably
- Workshop/conference news:
    - JupyterCon 2023
        - Rollin, Mridul
    - PEARC 2023 CfP
        - Michael
        - Deadline for short papers/posters coming up soon
    - Jupyter security workshop w/Trusted CI in October
- Community
    - [Online Collaboration Café](https://blog.jupyter.org/online-collaboration-caf%C3%A9-launch-jupyterhub-team-meetings-to-become-more-collaborative-spaces-b713edadf15) (?)

## Links Shared
