---
title: July 2023
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - July 2023

- **Date:** 2023-07-05
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-07-05/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/
- **Jupyter Code of Conduct:** https://jupyter.org/governance/conduct/code_of_conduct.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Ryan Lovett / UC Berkeley / @ryanlovett
- Rick Wagner / UC San Diego / @rpwagner
- Cory Sherman / U of WI / @cccsss01
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval / @cmd-ntrf

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- Félix-Antoine Fortin: [Magic Castle](https://github.com/computeCanada/magic_castle) tutorial was accepted at SC23!
    - Half-day tutorial
- 

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/273 (bump minimum to python 3.7) 
    - Wrapspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - Mentioned in discourse thread
        - But no repo action this month
    - Discourse:
        - HPC-related projects topic <- Rollin (keep being busy)
            - Batchspawner, wrapspawner
            - jupyter-lmod
            - jupyterhub-announcement
            - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
        - Census of deployments, what versions are people running? <- Mike
- Catching up on the KubeSpawner question from last month, may revisit next month
- Workshop/conference news:
    - PEARC 2023 CfP 
        - Michael will be there, doing a poster
            - Compare contrast JupyterHub vs OpenOnDemand
        - Rick
    - Jupyter security workshop w/Trusted CI Summit in October
        - https://www.trustedci.org/2023-cybersecurity-summit
        - Berkeley Lab October 24-26
        - Rick submitted proposal for Jupyter security activities, no feedback yet
        - Two proposed activities (Jupyter & Zeek wanted to leverage the summit):
            - Jupyter security workshop, full day
                - Next step is to talk to CBC about making that official Jupyter event
                - Likely to be Monday of that week (On Oct 23)
                - Feels confident!
            - Zeek / network monitoring tools + Jupyter
                - Half-day workshop proposed as part of regular tutorial/workshop days
                - Using Zeek for Jupyter deployments
                - Common deployment scenarios (laptop, hub, proxied)
                - Trigger events?  Increase traffic insight?  Etc.
            - If you want to come please do!
            - Invite your security friends!
    - KubeCon NA Chicago Nov. 2023
        - November 6-9
        - HPC track
    - HPPSS at SC23
        - High Performance Python for Science at Scale
        - Call for Demos call for lightning talks
        - https://hppss.github.io/SC23/
    - 

## Links Shared
