---
title: September 2023
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - September 2023

- **Date:** 2023-09-06
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-09-06/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/
- **Jupyter Code of Conduct:** https://jupyter.org/governance/conduct/code_of_conduct.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / \@rcthomas
- Cory Sherman / UW Madison / \@cccsss01
- Rick Wagner / SDSC / \@rpwagner
- Jens Henrik Goebbert / FZJ-JSC / \@jhgoebbert
- Michael Milligan / MSI \@ UMN / \@mbmilligan
- Félix-Antoine Fortin / Université Laval, The Alliance / \@cmd-ntrf
- Mridul Seth / Anaconda

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
-  Cory Sherman
    -  Difficulties for iterative improvements with the hub secrets file, still using 2.0.0
        -  Having to rebuild helm chart every time
        -  Mridul, Rick may have some suggestions on secrets
    -  Global image repo setting in 3.0.0?
        -  Maybe check in with JupyterHub team on their call?
- Félix-Antoine Fortin:
    - We had to debug 504 error in Jupyter notebooks running from a Lustre HOME. Turns out we had to fix 4 different things to fix bad user experience.
    - Planning to write a blog post of sort about that and I am wondering if anyone had similar issues.
    - Fixes were : 
        - moving IPython history database in memory
        - moving Jupyter server signature database in memory
        - moving Jupyter runtime directory to SLURM_TMPDIR (it's no longer XDG_RUNTIME_DIR since 2019...)
        - disabling FileManagerMixin use_atomic_writing (https://jupyter-server.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/jupyter_server.services.contents.html#jupyter_server.services.contents.fileio.FileManagerMixin.use_atomic_writing)
    - Used strace then went to pyspy for RCA
    - Discourse post encouraged by all
- Rollin: If we have time I can tell you about misconfigured MTUs and bad optical connections that Jupyter found
    - I now ping every Jupyter notebook running every 30s to catch timeouts and 504 storms
    - DVS woes
    - GPFS woes

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/273 (bump minimum to python 3.7)
        - Review after PEARC 
    - Wrapspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - Mentioned in discourse thread
        - But no repo action this month
    - Discourse:
        - HPC-related projects topic <- Rollin (done)
            - Batchspawner, wrapspawner
            - jupyter-lmod
            - jupyterhub-announcement
            - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
        - Census of deployments, what versions are people running? <- Mike
        - Felix: Write up the 504 issue w/Lustre on Discourse?
- Workshop/conference news:
    - TrustedCI Summit at LBL, week of October 23
        - October 24-26
        - Security subproject + Zeek
            - Security training
            - Jupyter + Zeek workshop
            - https://www.trustedci.org/2023-cybersecurity-summit
    - KubeCon NA Chicago Nov. 2023
        - November 6-9
        - HPC track
    - SC23
        - HPPSS at SC23
            - High Performance Python for Science at Scale
            - https://hppss.github.io/SC23/
        - Magic Castle Tutorial
    - Others?

## Links Shared
