---
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - May 2023

- **Date:** 2023-05-03
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-05-03/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Ryan Lovett / UC Berkeley / ryanlovett
- Philip Mabon / Public Health Agency of Canada / takadonet
- Mridul Seth / Anaconda / MridulS
- Rick Wagner / UCSD / rpwagner
- Simon Li / University of Dundee / @manics
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ U of MN / @mbmilligan
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- Ryan: FYI about @lexming's https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/254. It helps solve a local problem.
    - Very long poll time, this checks status on the initial spawn command
    - Causes hub to realize job is no longer running and lets them try again
- Philip: Introduce myself and our current plans for using jupyterhub on our HPC
    - Public health agency of Canada
    - Collaborating w/Felix
    - Batchspawner, Puppet

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- Adding an "HPC" tag to the Discourse
    - https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/creating-new-tag-for-hpc/18850
    - Usage of Discourse by Jupyter projects:
        - Reserve GitHub issue trackers for bugs
        - Forward support issues to Discourse
        - Discourse support bot https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/blob/main/.github/workflows/support-bot.yml (thanks to Simon)
    - Advertise these meetings on Discourse generally but tag as HPC too (Oops, will add a reminder next month)
    - Topics:
        - Make announcements about meetings starting next month and Gather/list repos that make sense to discuss on Discourse.  Make an announcement about this => *Rollin*, also look at old topics and tag:
            - BatchSpawner
            - WrapSpawner
            - jupyter-lmod
            - jupyterhub-announcement?
            - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
        - Another topic: Who is running what?  Can we use that as input on the text matrix?  How often do people upgrade their hub?  This is a good way to get feedback. => *Mike*?
        - Mention in various repos that support requests should go to Discourse, bug reports and issues on GitHub
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - hoping for new release soon, may do that and then fix up the test matrix
        - Pulling in 254
        - want to fix sqlalchemy version issues that cause tests for older versions to spuriously fail
        - W/JupyterHub 4: Will add as experimental test target and then revisit on next release to see about dropping oldest version(s)
            - Breaking changes in JupyterHub 4:
                - [require sqlalchemy 1.4 #4319](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4319)
                - [Use XSRF tokens for cross-site checks #4032](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4032)
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Options form PR
        - Rollin should move aside that last commit about auto-vivifying server since it breaks later hubs probably
        - FYI New profile related PRs on KubeSpawner:
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/pull/724
            - https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/pull/729
        - Mridul is going to try to add profiles to base JupyterHub
        - Yuvi is working on abstracting UI bits related to profiles, https://github.com/yuvipanda/prototype-kubespawner-dynamic-building-ui. It is not necessarily k8s bound.
        - Possible directions:
            - KubeSpawner and WrapSpawner together
            - Change JupyterHub core to make Spawner driven by a factory function instead of class set at configure time
            - ProfileSpawner as the core spawner?
- Workshop/conference news:
    - JupyterCon 2023
        - Rollin, Mridul, Rick
    - PEARC 2023 CfP 
        - Michael will be there, doing a poster
            - Compare contrast JupyterHub vs OpenOnDemand
        - Rick
    - Jupyter security workshop w/Trusted CI in October
        - Want to align with the security folks attending
        - That side hasn't 100% decided on their direction
        - Hopefully by next month more concrete

## Links Shared

- Community
    - [Online Collaboration Café](https://blog.jupyter.org/online-collaboration-caf%C3%A9-launch-jupyterhub-team-meetings-to-become-more-collaborative-spaces-b713edadf15) (?)
        - Folks from Discourse were invited to attend
        - Technical nature made meetings a barrier sometimes
        - 2 hour meeting split into several short sessions
        - Come for 10 minutes not expected to stay 2 hours except chair
        - Form separate breakout rooms on specific topics (particular repo or PR in a repo)
            - JupyterHub HPC might be a breakout
            - Profiles
        - Have held 2-3 so far
    - JupyterHub HPC monthly meeting notes https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/index.html
