---
title: June 2023
tags:
  - meeting
  - hpc
  - notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - June 2023

- **Date:** 2023-06-07
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-06-07/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/
- **Jupyter Code of Conduct:** https://jupyter.org/governance/conduct/code_of_conduct.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / \@rcthomas
- Ryan Lovett / UC Berkeley / \@ryanlovett
- Michael Milligan / MSI \@ U of MN / \@mbmilligan
- Mridul Seth / Anaconda / \@MridulS
- Cory Sherman / U of WI / \@cccsss01
- Rick Wagner / UCSD / \@rpwagner
- Kellen Leland / ORNL / \@kellenrl
- Mike Whitney / U of WI

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **Rollin:** HPC tag on Discourse
    - Used to advertise this meeting
    - Discourse support bot https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/blob/main/.github/workflows/support-bot.yml 
    - Had planned to try and tag topics with the following keywords that already exist, but can't find a way to tag existing topics:
        - BatchSpawner
        - WrapSpawner
        - jupyter-lmod
        - jupyterhub-announcement?
        - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
    - Question:
        - Is there a value to tagging historical topics?
        - Maybe make a tagged post referencing more useful topics
        - Do that relatively soon so it starts relatively early
    - Topic to post: What are people running (as input for test matrix on e.g. Batchspawner) <- Mike
    - Topic on HPC-related projects (some above) <- Rollin
- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
    - Wrapspawner check-in: Issues and PRs
        - Want to try some basic tests
    - May was busy, no change since last month
- Workshop/conference news:
    - JupyterCon 2023 retrospective
        - Good time!
        - Keynotes
        - JupyterLab-AI
        - Security talk with exciting demo from a red-teamer
            - Security scanning of containers is important
            - Interesting demo of how he probes a JupyterLab
        - Mridul talked to Min a lot about profiles
            - How to make profiles part of core JupyterHub
            - Move code out of KubeSpawner/WrapSpawner into core?
        - Jupyter Server and JupyVerse
            - Internals of Jupyter Server
            - JupyVerse 
                - Break extensions
                - Roadmap: No
                - Inherent support for multi-server (obviate Hub)?
        - Lightning talks
            - European law impacting open source (warranty/service requirements for providers?) ECA
            - In-browser web-assembly (pyodide)?
                - Does that have relevance to the HPC space?
                - Authentication and token caching in the browser. 
                - Focus on secure access from browser to data or compute resources. 
                - For some users who just want access to data, do those users need to be running on JupyterHub
                - Need to know about how to do authentication
                - Interpreter state is gone when you reload page?
                - => storage of state, variables, data
                - Could you do really secure dashboards this way?
            - Notebook terminal
        - JupyterCon 2024: Possibly in Paris again Sep 2024?
    - PEARC 2023 CfP 
        - Michael will be there, doing a poster
            - Compare contrast JupyterHub vs OpenOnDemand
        - Rick
    - Jupyter security workshop w/Trusted CI in October
        - Berkeley Lab October 24-26
        - Will submit proposal for full-day Jupyter security activities
        - Overlap between Jupyter and Cybersecurity summit attendees
        - There will be an update if/when accepted
    - KubeCon NA Chicago Nov. 2023
        - November 6-9
        - HPC track
- **Cory** Secure implementation
    - kubespawner w/o uid 0?
        - mutating webhooks?
        - Mike's understanding of Min's response was everything works as not uid 0
        - Want to start up container as the user, group membership
            - tini
            - storage exists already and has existing user ids
            - inject uid, gid at start, tini bootstraps env at runtime
            - jovyan user mapped to that user w/correct username
            - Rick's been through it with UCSD
        - Rick may have working example or can get access to a contact who could help with that; would be great to share out to community
        - Perhaps consider https://pypi.org/project/jupyterhub-roothooks/ (by yuvi panda) ?
        - Must have been solved elsewhere
- Round of introductions!

## Links Shared
