---
title: August 2023
tags: meeting, notes
---

# JupyterHub HPC Meeting - August 2023

- **Date:** 2023-08-02
- **Time:** 8:30 AM PDT
  - **Your timezone:** https://arewemeetingyet.com/Los%20Angeles/2023-08-02/08:30/JupyterHub-HPC
- **Where you can find these and past meeting notes:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/hpc/ 
- **Calendar for future meetings:** https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/meetings/
- **Jupyter Code of Conduct:** https://jupyter.org/governance/conduct/code_of_conduct.html

## Welcome to the Meeting

Hello! If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

- **name** / **institution** / **GitHub handle**
- Rollin Thomas / NERSC / @rcthomas
- Mridul Seth / Anaconda / @MridulS
- Spencer Ward / OLCF / @wardse
- Zach Price / ORNL /
- Michael Milligan / MSI @ U of MN / @mbmilligan

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. This is also a chance to suggest a future presentation if you've got work currently in progress you might want to share. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- **Name:** Your report or celebration
- 

## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting. We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them together.

- **All:** Standing project items:
    - Batchspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/273 (bump minimum to python 3.7)
        - Review after PEARC 
    - Wrapspawner check-in, issues and PRs
        - Mentioned in discourse thread
        - But no repo action this month
    - Discourse:
        - HPC-related projects topic <- Rollin (done)
            - Batchspawner, wrapspawner
            - jupyter-lmod
            - jupyterhub-announcement
            - jupyter-slurm-provisioner
        - Census of deployments, what versions are people running? <- Mike
- Workshop/conference news:
    - PEARC 2023 debrief
        - Open OnDemand has a very large presence
        - Should NumFOCUS have a presence at PEARC?
        - Vendors supporting OnDemand signs
        - Displacing JupyterHub
        - Michael's team had a poster up comparing Hub + OOD:
            - Not many institutions with both deployed
            - OOD deployed to explore moving away from virtual desktops
            - Jupyter could do much of this too but is container first
            - OOD just worked in their tests
            - If you want purpose-built HPC support, OOD is good
            - JupyterHub is more flexible architecturally
            - Want to mix+match HPC + cloud/cloud-like resources JupyterHub may be better
            - Might be able to construct more sophisticated security regimes w/JupyterHub for Jupyter specifically
            - Overall Jupyter is very interesting to people doing HPC
            - Instances of JupyterHub being used for cloud-oriented resources, more clever things w/tokens than OOD
            - Will have a link to the poster once ACM posts
    - TrustedCI Summit at LBL, week of October 23
        - October 24-26
        - Security subproject + Zeek
            - Security training
            - Jupyter + Zeek workshop
            - https://www.trustedci.org/2023-cybersecurity-summit
    - KubeCon NA Chicago Nov. 2023
        - November 6-9
        - HPC track
    - HPPSS at SC23
        - High Performance Python for Science at Scale
        - Call for Demos call for lightning talks
        - https://hppss.github.io/SC23/
        - Deadline extended to August 15
    - Magic Castle at SC23
    - Others?

## Links Shared
