# 2024 Collaboration Cafe Notes Archive

## 2024-11-19

### Check-in

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute (might be a couple minutes late)
- Simon / @manics / University of Dundee
- Jonah / @jduckles / Organizational Mycology
- Dan / @dsholler / Organizational Mycology
- Erik / @consideRatio / 2i2c
- Sarah / @sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c
- Beth / @bduckles / Organizational Mycology

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:

- Z2JH 4.0.0 is out!
- TLJH 2.0.0 is out!

## Agenda

- **Min (10m):** Adopting JupyterHealth into JupyterHub
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhealth>
  - Proposal to formally bring this project under Jupyter governance, hopefully submitted in a couple of weeks
  - Related to a TRE-integrated JH? Related in principle but perhaps not exactly the same
- **Yuvi (5min):** 2i2c & Structured Open Source Policy for getting more people involved in upstream maintenance in JupyterHub
  - <https://hackmd.io/rteifFE0SV6Hk20KRfMR0w> and <https://hackmd.io/k_gIv0_uRa6yRXsNDnFLfQ?view> and <https://hackmd.io/-3p4o-SITM668FIGKn-2SQ?view>
  - Please provide feedback on what you think! (as comments in the doc or email to me at yuvipanda@2i2c.org)
- **OrgMycology and Turing Way (10 min):** Kicking off the "Voices of JupyterHub" project interviews <https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS> Link to express interest in being interviewed: [Click Here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfQ7cpwtDOPd2paYkU4gy60hwxXUxw-Nk1xa7Qu_MrBTfZeNA/viewform?usp=sf_link)
  - Advertise this on Discourse for greater reach? <https://discourse.jupyter.org/c/jupyterhub/10>
  - [Inactive team members on the team-compass](https://jupyterhub-team-compass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/team/index.html#inactive-team-members)
- **Min (10 min):** JupyterHub images <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/issues/4954>
- **Simon (10 min):** Integrating  jhsingle-native-proxy
  - [Integrating native-proxy #501](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/pull/501)
  - Built on top of [Make config.ServerProcess into a Configurable #507](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/pull/507)
- **Simon (10 min):** JupyterHub TREs
  - Partly related to <https://github.com/lsc-sde/lsc-sde/discussions/55>

## 2024-10-15

No meeting due to lack of attendees.

## 2024-09-17

### Check-in

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute (might be 5 min late)
- Sarah Gibson / @sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Erik Sundell / @consideratio / 2i2c
- Arnim Bleier /@arnim / GESIS
- Dan Sholler / @dsholler / Organizational Mycology
- shane knapp / @shaneknapp / UC Berkeley
- Kirstie Whitaker / @KirstieJane / Alan Turing Institute
- Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:

- Erik (@consideRatio) doing lots of maintenance and update on ldapauthenticator and others. Thank you!
- notebook 7 now on mybinder.org

## Agenda :clock2:

- **Min (10m)**: spreading meeting facilitation responsibilities: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/737>
  - Maybe bring it up on the forum
  - wider advertisement of meetings, e.g. forum. Most things are only on Issues right now
  - relying on volunteers leads to bias in who participates
  - Sarah offers mentorship for facilitators
  - Broader question: Standing agenda item on community engagement/activity, who is coming or not, etc.
  - Nominate a person to make a list of where to share things (write here):
    - Jupyter forum
    - Twitter? / Mastodon? Do we have those accounts anymore?
    - Gitter?
- **Dan Sholler (5 minutes)**: Voices of Jupyter Research Project with The Turing Way
  - Scope of Work here: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M2kfwvT7KHfgWd2Qph3BIM7seyrb8Lt23cVE_1HzvMw/edit#heading=h.x5kwcnqrf9m2>
  - Track progress and contribute here: <https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS>
  - Past report as a sample: <https://astropy-dei.orgmycology.com/>
- **Arnim c/o Min (10m)**: discuss GESIS in mybinder.org
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/3087>
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/3083>
  - nebulous "issues" launching repos that don't have local images
  - local image cache limited to 2TB, if it needs to be pulled from docker hub lots of traffic and sometimes very slow
  - If pull fails due to timeout, this triggers a new build
  - short-term: Lower GESIS role in federation to avoid timeouts
  - "passthrough" registry docker configuration to reduce push/pull roundtrip all the way to docker hub
- **Shane (no idea how much time)**: Configurable HTTP proxy running out of ephemeral ports
  - happens when ~300+ users are logged and working simultaneously
  - massive user impact
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/issues/388#issuecomment-2347600588>
  - <https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-to-stop-running-out-of-ephemeral-ports-and-start-to-love-long-lived-connections/>
    - `The default ephemeral port range contains more than 28,000 ports (60999+1-32768=28232). Does that mean we can have at most 28,000 outgoing connections? Thatâ€™s the core question of this blog post!`
  - do we limit number of users per hub (will be 'difficult' for some course-specific hubs with 1200 users)?
  - somehow load-balance the chp (a bit meta lol)
  - Proposal to try switching to traefik again: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/3497>

## 2024-08-20

### Check-in

- Sarah Gibson / / 2i2c
- Min / @minrk /  Simula
- Erik / @consideratio / 2i2c

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs

- Min did amazing work in a KubeSpawner PR!
- Simon plans on releasing Traefik Proxy this week

### Agenda

- **Erik (10m)**: KubeSpawner project complications in not-officially maintained KubeIngressProxy?
- What's the state of this meeting?
  - Sarah hasn't been in the Community Strategic Lead role for a while now, so faciliatating this meeting should not by default fall to her
    - Spreading the load: roster or volunteers, another mechanism?
    - Sarah would appreciate someone else to begin facilitating the US TZ meeting as that can run quite late into the evening for UK
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/737>
  - Does the format of this meeting still work? Reduce back to 1hr? Maybe more frequent and shorter meetings?
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/738>
  - Maybe more specific meetings, e.g., maintainers office hours, governance board strategy meeting, as well as free(er)-form community meetings
    - Also <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/738>
- Sarah would also like some help revisiting some work done by an external governance consultant: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJMRR7ggIivmccrAjIgFWwLt9NYpzrn87ku-4GAFbnw/edit?usp=sharing> Please reach out to her if you would like to pair on a specific proposal
  - Erik has volunteered to pair on Proposal A: jupyterhub-contrib org

## 2024-07-17

### Check-in

- Sarah Gibson / sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Diogo Castro / diocas/ CERN
- Simon Li / manics / University of Dundee
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Min RK / minrk / Simula

## Agenda

- **Samuel (10m)**: Kubespawner -> operator discussion
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/issues/839>
  - <https://github.com/lsc-sde/lsc-sde>
  - <https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/amalthea/> is becoming Jupyter agnostic
- **Samuel (10m)**: Multispawner
  - <https://github.com/idiap/multiauthenticator/>
    - <https://github.com/idiap/multiauthenticator/issues/27>
      - Should no (or same) prefix be allowed for multiple authenticators? Definitely not by default.
      - Possibly through configuration.
    - <https://github.com/idiap/multiauthenticator/issues/26>
      - Maybe prefix should never modified by normalisation?
  - PyPI: <https://pypi.org/project/jupyterhub-multiauthenticator/>
  - Not the same as <https://pypi.org/project/multiauthenticator/>
- CodeSpell PRs:
  - A few PRs have been opened, should we roll it out across JupyterHub?
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/pull/492>
    - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker-action/pull/125>
  - 2i2c uses it, pre-commit only (no GitHub workflow needed)

## 2024-06

Meeting cancelled due to folk on vacation.

## 2024-05-22

### Check-in

- Sarah / @sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Erik / @consideratio / 2i2c
- Simon / @manics / University of Dundee
- Blessing / @bl-aire
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Shaun / @qcaas-nhs-sjt / NHS Lancashire and South Cumbria ICS

## Celebrations and Shout-Outs

- Thanks to MichaÅ‚ Krassowski for landing authenticator-managed Roles: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4748>

### Agenda

- **Min (5min)**: JupyterHub 5 release ready
- **Min (10min)**: repo2docker updating to JupyterLab 4, adding Python 3.12
  - lab 4 doesn't support 3.7 <https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1340>
    - No objections to freezing 3.7 environment
  - Add Python 3.12 <https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1347>
  - Can we decide up front what to do if a frozen environment breaks so we don't waste time investigating?
    - Difficult, since if it breaks we still need to investigate whther it's a true breakage, or a temporary failure
- **Erik (5min)**: Releases of dependencies for z2jh and tljh to go with JupyterHub 5 bump.
  - Help needed with reviewing potential PRs (or making any other breaking changes):
    - [oauthenticator](https://github.com/jupyterhub/oauthenticator/pulls)
    - [kubespawner](https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/pulls)
- **Simon/Shaun (5min)**: Secure remote desktop access with JupyterHub (Trusted Research Environments)
  - <https://github.com/lsc-sde/lsc-sde/discussions/55>
- **Shaun (5min)**: Unifying Kubespawner with the Kubernetes Controller Model
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/issues/839>
  - **Min**: Might be better to start from scratch, and copy any useful code from KubeSpawner
  - Other related work from Swiss Data Science Center:
    - <https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/amalthea>
    - <https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-notebooks>
- **Ryan (5 min)**: Hub with named servers. Students and TAs (teaching assistents).
  - TAs have access to student servers and home directories(?)
  - Some courses reverse roles though (TA in one course is student in another and vice-versa)
  - Is there a way to grant role permissions based on server name (e.g. course prefix)?
- **Simon (5 mins)**: Latest release of `requests` breaks docker-py, which breaks lots of our CI and any apps using docker-py e.g. repo2docker, chartpress
  - <https://github.com/docker/docker-py/issues/3256>

## 2024-04

Meeting cancelled due to low attendance.

## 2024-03-19

### Check-in

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Sarah Gibson / @sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Mike Krassowski / @krassowski / Quansight
- Erik / @consideratio / 2i2c

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs

- Thanks to Erik, assisted by Yuvi, for working on jupyter-server-proxy security patch

### Agenda

- **Min** (10 min): Preparing JupyterHub security release <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/security/advisories/GHSA-7r3h-4ph8-w38g>
- **Erik** misc releases + security advisories
  - [x] batchspawner, <https://github.com/jupyterhub/batchspawner/pull/302>
  - [ ] oauthenticator
    - The ask: help review advisory and patch PR, and provide agreement/disagreement on going for a release ~today
    - Changelog PR: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/oauthenticator/pull/732>
    - security advisory: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/oauthenticator/security/advisories/GHSA-55m3-44xf-hg4h>
    - security advisory PR: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/oauthenticator-ghsa-55m3-44xf-hg4h/pull/2>
  - [ ] jupyter-server-proxy
    - the ask: OK to publish advisory today?
    - releases are already made, but not with changelog yet
    - security advisory to be published - today!?: <https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/security/advisories/GHSA-w3vc-fx9p-wp4v>
- **Mike** JupyterHub release timelines (ballpark), `manage_roles` PR (<https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4050>)
- **Erik** Backport release in conda-forge? Anyone with experience?
  - Agenda item goal: understand if we go for that

## 2024-02-20

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Sarah / @sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Kirstie / @KirstieJane / The Alan Turing Institute
- Simon / @manics / University of Dundee
- Steve / @stevejpurves / Curvenote | MystMarkdown

### Introduce yourself! :wave:

_If you are new to the meeting, add your name below and you can introduce yourself at the start of the meeting._

- Kirstie Whitaker - Programme Director for Tools, Practices and Systems at The Alan Turing Institute. Founder of The Turing Way. Very interested in open source governance (EDI, accountability, transparency, project management etc)

### Agenda :clock2:

- **Kirstie** (15mins): CZI Essential Open Source Software for Science (EOSS) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) funding revamp proposal
  - <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pSU9kG_XDOSTF4JcbIt18hep1rCHIjuUYuYi5mg0q-0/edit?usp=sharing>
  - Sarah found Outreachy is not well suited to the capacity of JupyterHub's community
  - There isn't a dedicated leadership meeting for the council
  - Proposal:
    - develop community engagement strategy and identify contributor blockers by speaking with the leadership council
    - not building a specific community development guide and create clearer x-refs between Jhub team compass and The Turing Way building on Jhub community's needs
    - building trainers for community members to mentor new contributors
    - embedding inclusive practices into Jhub community
  - Questions?:
    - How to address the issue of feeling empowered to do stuff (Kirstie specifically?) Where to do the work (project is spread out), lack of clarity and explicitness makes things difficult, make sure we're raising issues on what is unclear, raising things and not getting a response, escalation process to ensure Kirstie has support
      - KW will come along to collab cafe regularly to report back and escalate
      - It's a feature to identify the barriers
      - KW wants to know how accurate is the membership of the jhub council? Can anyone identify any risks of talking to the council about what it means to lead the project? E.g. "Don't do X"
        - Variety of interaction in the council, and there isn't a clear set of expectations in what the council is doing
        - different types of leadership, technical decisions, community management, organisational leadership, paid development time
- **Steve** (15mins): Contributing a new content/repo provider (MECA) to BinderHub/mybinder.org - how to?
  - Notebooks Now! project run by AGU, funded project to pilot using Notebooks to build interactive, computational article, and formally publish them
  - How to integrate with XML format (specifically JATS used by journals, also comes with a zip file MECA) so that Notebook-based publications can be accepted
  - MECA is an existing NISO standard (<https://www.niso.org/standards-committees/meca>) , modify JATS to also understand Notebooks, and bundle MECA with the binder requirements for launching. Completely disassociate from a GitHub repo.
  - <https://agu.curve.space> - demo website showing what the journal might look like
  - New repo-provider "MECA for binder", how to get code into repo2docker? how to deploy it onto mybinder.org?
    - PRs:
      - [#1335](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1335) on repo2docker repo
      - [#1824](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/pull/1824) on binderhub repo
    - What's the best way to take the conversation forward? How is the provider working and any improvement, technical review?
      - From Jhub side, barrier is review time/capacity, not necessarily that it shouldn't be upstream
- **Kirstie** (15mins): "I think this is the first barrier for you Kirstie ðŸ˜‰ A lot of folk turn up to this meeting with a "I have a PR, how do I push it forward?" style question"
  - We don't have much of a review process at the moment and it is hard to allocate time and expertise to the review.
    - Do we make the decision in the meeting? How many people need to say "yes" for it to be a real "yes"!
    - Process isn't written down.
  - The project is very technical and there are a lot of information siloes.
    - Some folks don't feel confident enough to review (and that might be truely that they don't have the expertise! Even if they're leaders in the community.)
  - Identifying reviewers in advance can be hard.
  - Some other projects allocate a reviewer (often by a bot) and then they know that it is their responsibility to take the review forwards.
    - They become the point person so even if they don't know the right details _they_ can go and get the person who has the expertise.
  - Additional challenge around repo2docker as a specification - might have additional maintenance burden if edits are incorporated there.
  - Bias towards the more recent tasks and the easier or noiser tasks for reviewers.
    - Potentially needs a specific meeting (or async equivalent) to set the priorities
  - Hard to figure out how to reach consensus
  - "Yuvi and Sarah spoke to a governance expert on some of these things, I think section C here is particularly relevant": <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJMRR7ggIivmccrAjIgFWwLt9NYpzrn87ku-4GAFbnw/edit?usp=sharing>
    - No actions taken yet.
  - Could try a bug triage activity - maybe part of the collaboration cafe on a regular basis.
    - Tried in the original vision but didn't get momentum yet: <https://blog.jupyter.org/online-collaboration-caf%C3%A9-launch-jupyterhub-team-meetings-to-become-more-collaborative-spaces-b713edadf15>
      - Maybe not enough people yet in the meetings
      - Monthly meetings mean that there are big chunky topics to discuss so again triaging drops down the priority list.
        - Maybe more often? Maybe not trying to do everything in the same meeting (collaboration cafe)??
        - Hard with different time zones! (A wicked problem, no easy answer!)

## 2024-01-16

### Check-in

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Simon / @manics / University of Dundee
- Raniere / @rgaiacs / GESIS
- Erik / @consideRatio / 2i2c

### Agenda

- **Min** (15m): user-initiated sharing [PR is complete and ready for review](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4594)
  - key points for review:
    - architecture overview
    - permissions
    - defaults
    - pydantic v2 dependency
  - questions:
    - samuel: is a share-code single use or usable multiple times to grant users permissions?
      - min: its re-usable, and state is kept on how many times its used.
      - samuel: it would be a relevant feature to let a share code be usable once and only once
      - min: current inclination is to not provide once-use codes yet, but its not that hard to support
    - erik: when this is released, what a implication?
      - admins: enabling sharing
      - users: tricky but possible to generate share links
      - min: reference + tutorial + example is provided
    - erik: review scrutiny
      - review in scopes.py file is relevant to ensure stability, there is some refactoring related to "has scopes" which is used in "am i allowed" handlers.
      - there is now public api where it was previously private
      - min: besides this, there is review of relevance about granularity of scope and missing features
- **Min** (15m): JupyterHub 5 planning
  - PRs awaiting review:
    - [/hub/info endpoint](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4442)
    - [public_url config](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4479)
    - [oauth improvement](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4608)
    - [user sharing](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4594)
    - (the prs can be reviewed separately, where /hub/info should be at least reviewed by Yuvi who requested the feature)
  - Features implemented, awaiting release:
  -
- **Min** (10m): Security discussion
- **Samuel** (10m): repo2podman ignore file management
  - PRs awaiting reviews
    - [ignore file support](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1205)
    - [extra ignore file support](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1325)
    - Points that needed some clarifications:
      - The ignore files are to be used at the Docker level and not repo2docker itself
      - The goal is to make repo2docker work in a similar fashion to podman and docker where files listed there will not be sent to the context and thus not part of the image
    - Possible issues:
      - May current repository break if these files are now being actively used ? It's likely going to be a rare case.
      - The documentation should be improved to make clear that the ignore file do not apply to repo2docker itself.
- **Simon** (3m) BinderHub versioning
  - <https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/1797>
  - CalVer is hard to get out of: <https://jacobtomlinson.dev/posts/2023/sometimes-i-regret-using-calver/>
  - EffVer! <https://jacobtomlinson.dev/effver/>
- **Erik** (3m) Z2JH breaking change merged requiring k8s 1.24+, and in end of january also k8s 1.25+ - I'm thinking we wait for jupyterhub 5 and focus on getting it out.
