---
title: "2025"
---

# 2025 Collaboration Cafe Notes Archive

## 2025-12-02

### Check-in 💁

Let us know that you're here and how we can stay in touch

* *Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location*
* Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA, USA 
* Anton Akhmerov / @akhmerov / TU Delft / Delft, ZH, NL
* Brigitta Sipőcz (she/her) / @bsipocz / Caltech / Seattle, USA
* Stéfan van der Walt / @stefanv / BIDS, Scientific Python / Truckee, CA
* Rowan Cockett / @rowanc1 / Curvenote \& Continuous Science Foundation, 🇨🇦
* Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c \& Jupyter Book / Rugby, UK
* Jake Diamond-Reivich/Jupyter Media Strategy/ New York, NY
* Jason Grout / @jasongrout / EC / Phoenix, AZ, USA

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What is your favourite food for this time of year?*

* Kirstie: Lebkuchen! Delicious German gingerbread!
* Anton: kimchi 
    * S: I love making kimchi!
* marzipan in anything
* Angus: Sunday Roast 😋 

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

* Solyr grant submitted - led by Tasha Snow (U Maryland) and in collaboration with CryoClud
* Two new myst releases since last meeting 👀
*  Ran a standard meeting on scientific content:
    * [https://articles.continuousfoundation.org/articles/scientific-standards-meeting](https://articles.continuousfoundation.org/articles/scientific-standards-meeting)

### Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

Please add your name to any breakout room topics that you'd like to join.

*Note that this collaboration cafe happened during the inaugural Hub Dash event so there weren't any specific Jupyter Hub topics discussed*

* Prioritization \& Roadmapping
* Plugins
* Executable improvements
* Big bits of work:
  * Outputs - in progress on getting that over the line (Steve)
  * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674)
  * Outputs
  * Transformation pipeline
  * Plugins
  * JupyterLab MyST

### Notes for Main Room discussion: Prioritization for Jupyter Book

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

* Outputs - in progress on getting that over the line (Steve)
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674)
* Core health of the project, dev-focused conversations e.g.
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/634](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/634)
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/595](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/595)
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-spec/pull/67](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-spec/pull/67)
* Plugins, extensibility
*  Anton:
    * Mentions lack of development docs on the build pipeline ordering
    *  Two relevant resources that we may want to update:
        * [https://mystmd.org/guide/overview#overview-build-process](https://mystmd.org/guide/overview#overview-build-process)
        * [https://mystmd.org/guide/developer#architecture](https://mystmd.org/guide/developer#architecture)
* Brigitta: execution tracking issues, are they stale?
    *  [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1026](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1026)
    *  [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2019](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2019)
* Big bits of work:
    * Outputs - in progress on getting that over the line (Steve)
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1674)
    * Plugins
    * JupyterLab MyST
    * Transformation pipeline
* Stefan is running drop-ins
    * Tomorrow morning 9am Pacific :)
*  Action Items:
    * We can probably get [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2413](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2413) over the line, I suspect the errors have been fixed in main (pray)
* How do we get tasks ON the prioritization list, and how do we define them as done?
    * [https://github.com/orgs/jupyter-book/projects/1](https://github.com/orgs/jupyter-book/projects/1)
* Talking about the initiative - user story split as a way of refining actionable chunks of work
* Anton asks about where we open issues for different things (theme vs book)
* Also touching on Jupyter Book vs mystmd split.

## 2025-11-18

### Check-in 💁

Let us know that you're here and how we can stay in touch.

* *Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location*
* Min (he/him) / @minrk / BIDS / California
* Kirstie (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA
* Simon (he/him) / @manics / University of Dundee / UK
* Erik (he/him) / @consideRatio / Sundell Open Source / Uppsala, Sweden
* Vincent Gu (he/him) / Berkeley Institute for Data Science/ Berkeley, CA
* Dan (he/him) / @dsholler / OrgMycology/ California, USA
* Freek Pols (he/him) / @freekpols / TU Delft / The Netherlands
* Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Germany
* Jonah Duckles (he/him) / @jduckles / OrgMycology / Aotearoa (New Zealand)
* Kelly Rowland (she/they) / @kellyrowland / NERSC / SF Bay Area, CA
* Robert Lanzafame / rlanzafame / GEI Consultants / Oakland, CA
* Anton Akhmerov / @akhmerov / TU Delft
* Angus Hollands / agoose77 / 2i2c 
* Arielle Bennett (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing Institute / currently London, UK 
* James Munroe / jmunroe / 2i2c
* Jim Madge / JimMadge / Alan Turing Institute / Exeter UK
* Yijun Ge / @yijunge-ucb / UC Berkeley RTL 
* Matt Fisher / @mfisher87 / UC Berkeley DSE
* April Johnson (she/they) / @aprilmj / 2i2c / Virginia, US
* Beth Duckles (she/her) / @bduckles / OrgMycology/ Portland, OR 
* Saumya Lohia (she/her) / @slohia-19 / BIDS / Berkeley, CA
* Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c
* Ankita Biyani (she/her) / @ankbiy /BIDS Intern/ Berkeley, CA
* Hazel Zheng (she/her) / BIDS Intern / Berkeley, CA
* Eric Rawn (he/they) / @erawn / UC Berkeley EECS
* Johanna (she/her) /Donders Institute /@likeajumprope / Netherlands
* Silas Santini / @pancakereport / UC Berkeley
* Stéfan van der Walt / @stefanv / BIDS + Scientific Python

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What - or who - are you thankful for?*

* Kirstie: BIDS interns!! Starting today - we're so excited to have some team members helping out with project management and event coordination
* Kirstie: Silas - wrote up a GREAT blog post from JupyterCon - on the first day no less!! OMG!
  * [https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/themes-day-1-jupytercon-2025-collaboration-and-modularity](https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/themes-day-1-jupytercon-2025-collaboration-and-modularity)
* Freek: The review team :D :D :D for granting our proposal :D :D :D see the proposal on discord: [https://discord.com/channels/1083088970059096114/1418264508522299433/1427721090083328021](https://discord.com/channels/1083088970059096114/1418264508522299433/1427721090083328021)
* Min: all the community and organization and event work done by Kirstie, Arielle, Raniere, and the OrgMycology team this Fall
* Raniere: I'm tankful to the engineers that invented under floor heating to keep us warm in the winter.
* Angus: recently, the TTW folks for supporting the wider Jupyter Book ecosystem 
* The team for the release!
* Jonah: Help from JB team on fixing some things in Voices of JupyterHub Report.
* Robert: having a job again, and being able to meet so many nice people with exciting stories at JupyterCon!
* Jim: Everyone who contributes to the projects I like and use 🎉
* Dan: Everyone who participated in the JupyterCon JupyterHub users workshop +1000
* Vincent: Available street parking in Berkeley today 
* Arielle: feeling grateful for people's patience at the community sprint day! \& the folks who have already submitted a case study of Jupyter deployments   
* Simon: Jim for kicking off a TRE discussion (no no, that was Kirstie 😆)
* Beth: Really grateful for all the folks that I talked to at JupyterCon, I had such good conversations! 
* Jenny: I am thankful for the vital sense of community I felt at JupyterCon that I hope to pass the torch on elsewhere <3
* Hazel: I'm excited to be joining the team and thankful for being able to meet so many great people.
* Matt: Fun time at JupyterCon a couple weeks ago! Workshop I co-hosted was well-received. New collaboration with Ryan Lovett over the last week!
* Erik: thankful and excited about metrics via for example 2i2c-org/jupyterhub-groups-exporter and 2i2c-org/prometheus-dirsize-exporter for the jupyterhub/grafana-dashboards enabling nice dashboard panels
* Ankita: I am thankful for getting the opportunity to be here and be part of the exciting community at BIDS! 
* Johanna: my friends and colleagues (especially feminist and empowering ones) 

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

* the team!!! Releasing JB2.
  * Added by Kirstie: [https://blog.jupyterbook.org/posts/2025-11-04-why-make-a-major-release/](https://blog.jupyterbook.org/posts/2025-11-04-why-make-a-major-release/)
* Kirstie: We're going to hire a community manager!! WOOO!
  * [https://blog.jupyter.org/announcing-our-first-jupyter-community-funded-proposals-dd5263c19be3](https://blog.jupyter.org/announcing-our-first-jupyter-community-funded-proposals-dd5263c19be3)
  * Need to identify a process to interview and hire this person.... something to work on at the Hub Dash perhaps?
* Kirstie: Huge thank you to Tasha Snow for leading a funding proposal: Solyr: Unifying scientific workspaces from laptop to cloud 
* Erik: Jenny Wong (@jnywong) reviewed flurry of PRs in jupyterhub/grafana-dashboard and accepted maintainer privileges!
* Min: Kirstie and Raniere officially added to JupyterHub team (much belated, but welcome!)
* Dan: We have been putting client reports in JupyterBook (thanks to Jonah and Beth) - it's really awesome and folks love it. Thanks JB team!
* Matt: Ryan Lovett doing awesome work making it possible to work with MyST sites in JupyterLab/Hub. We're working together to make it even more user-friendly! Several PRs merged in the last few days: [https://github.com/ryanlovett/jupyter-myst-build-proxy/](https://github.com/ryanlovett/jupyter-myst-build-proxy/) 

### Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

* Jupyter Book
  * Looking back at JupyterCon 2025 
  * Reflecting on pulling the switch to release JB2
  * Jupyter Book logo in book theme?
  * Jupyter Book plugin improvements
* Room 3: Planning for Roadmapping event in February - Arielle, Min, Raniere
* Room 1 \& 2: Prep for HubDash in 2 weeks (!) - Arielle , Min
  * [https://tinyurl.com/hubdash2025](https://tinyurl.com/hubdash2025)
  * Jonah, Kelly
  * , Beth, Arielle, Min, Dan
* Kirstie: Community manager brainstorming ....
* JupyterHub TREs? (Simon, Erik)
* Monitoring and Cost reporting (I am looking at you YiJun :D, Erik)

### Notes for Hub Dash! 

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

* Jonah: OrgMycology, working with Jupyter team for the past year, going to try to take charge of contributor landing page (linked below)
  * More welcoming to folks who may want to contribute
  * "Front door" perspective
  * [https://hackmd.io/AvEYKb7iTRGJoofPB8BwqQ](https://hackmd.io/AvEYKb7iTRGJoofPB8BwqQ)
* Min: working on JH for a long time, wrangling documentation and standalone proxy, aiming to be available for support as needed generally
* Yuvi: been working on JH for a long time, wants to get more people involved in code reviews, structural triage, offer institutional knowledge and support technically and emotionally 
* Raniere: maybe documentation work
* Jason: just listening in to see how the hub community works
* Arielle: wants to work on migrating documentation to JupyterBook to better connect with the rest of the project ecosystem, provide dash infrastructure for Zoom rooms, etc.; idea for technical deployment case studies about hub deployments (what decisions were made any why, etc)
* Beth: OrgMycology, async space for folks to discuss mission and vision from leadership workshop
* Dan: OrgMycology, one idea is team compass and looking at what's needed there and how to work institutional knowledge into it, another idea to help with administration work, e.g. taking notes
* Kelly: Interested in the up top topics (Front door documentation), help with testing things
* Johanna: uses hub as part of a course where students run a local containerized hub, interested in reproducibility for teaching and open science and working on documentation towards that
* Mia: BIDS intern! hello
* Example docs repos:
  * jupyterhub/team-compass (org docs, Jupyter Book 2 candidate)
  * jupyterhub/jupyterhub (core package docs, NOT a Jupyter Book candidate)
  * jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s (kubernetes deployment docs, Jupyter Book 2 candidate)
  * jupyterhub/the-littlest-jupyterhub (single machine deployment docs, Jupyter Book 2 candidate)

### Notes for Jupyter Book extensions

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

Attendees: Angus Hollands, James Munroe, Franklin Koch, Anton Akhmerov, Freek Pols, Matt, Eric Rawn, Chris Holdgraf, Robert Lanzafame, Stefan van der Walt, Silas Santini

* Introductions!
* Topic ideas! 
  * How to make extensions? 
  * Where are there hard constraints vs soft constraints? What's impossible vs what is hard (e.g. undocumented).
    * How to make possibilities/bounds of extensions more visible for extension authors
  * Navigating the Jupyter Book ecosystem
  * Chris: Hard and soft constraints to writing the extentions; what constraints are the most useful to people to try to develop next
* Topics:
  * Onboarding, improving dev docs
    * Matt: Have a PR to fix right sidebar bug, but wasn't able to successfully follow testing instructions ([https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/665)](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/665))
  *  Release
     * Matt, Stefan: We want to see a couple bugs fixed before release! ([https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/665](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/665), [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/683)](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/683))
* Anton: Multiple choice questions for students (minimum java script right now), useful to have a mini exercise to practice, advantage is that it wouldn't pollute the code \& potentially dev multiple components.
  * Developer self-note — plugins with application state. ← perhaps not so much, it's a single blob of HTML+JS
  * pull request link available:  [https://gitlab.kwant-project.org/qt/topocm/-/merge\_requests/59](https://gitlab.kwant-project.org/qt/topocm/-/merge\_requests/59) (quite messy, not meant as a showcase)

Painpoints

* Chris\&Angus: Need to have extension API to have extensions
* Franklin: Plugins with own directive role, CSS, 
  * Angus: Generative Plugins
* Stefan: Brian H would like eyes on [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2448](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2448) related 
* Angus: Design decisions on JupyterLab \& JupyterLite, up and down sides. overly restrictive at the moment  
* global states are not currently exposed yet, some functions for building blog pages/galleries (filtering, etc.) not yet built
* James: Generative plugins pain point - build extensions that can help build things (eg. renaming files, how to extract info out, in the editing process)?
  * Round-triping 
  * LSP
  * Type the reference/source code right now, need improvement that enables you to go to someone elses' page and extract
* Anton: Which of the bibliography is used throughout the book
  * Angus: possible to do now, painful, but looking to improve
  * Cool feature idea.Angus: Feed all the paragraphs to tooling
  * use the MyST engine twice (in 2 paths); transform extension; 
  * aggregate the documents and then come back 
* Eric: Developer / debug tools for JupyterBooks
  * Sandbox
* Thanks to HAZEL for notes!! Thank you all for the wonderful insights!(please feel free to correct or add on to the notes:)

### Notes for Jupyter and TREs

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

* Discussion with Kirstie, Min and ??? at JupyterCon
* Feeling amongst TRE people that Jupyter is not a TRE
* However, there is obviously interest in Jupyter on working with sensitive data
* What is the gap? Is this about deploying/configuring JupyterHub in a specific way? Is it about new features?
* First Goal: Establish the requirements of the "TRE community"
  * Perhaps start with SATRE? (UK specific)
  * Emphasise 5 safes? (UK specific)
  * Some sites are quite opinionated
    * \_e.g.\_ Turing Institute DSH copy/paste. Very strict feeling that users must not be able to copy data out. Not so common in areas where the users are highly trained, or employees (\_e.g.\_ health spaces), a 5 safes approach.
    * Multiple layers of security? "How many things must go wrong before sensitive data can be leaked", must this be > 1
  * Perhaps not that much in terms of development: the real challenge here might be doing the leg-work of setting up a JupyterHub environment properly
    * Documenting this?
    * Somehow automating or templating this?
  * Governance: can we provide some template?
  * Jupyter TRE as an \_opinionated\_ deployment/spin of JupyterHub
    * JupyterHub is very flexible, that can be a double-edged sword
    * Present a clear, recommended configuration for trusted research
* Funding and political questions,
  * Can the UK TRE community get funding to work upstream, or to fund Jupyter?
  * Can similar communities in other countries?
  * How does this work with the politics of the existing community, their funders, their outputs (\_e.g.\_ DARE, SATRE, K8TRE)
  * **Political point**: in the UK we have put a lot of effort into writing SATRE and getting it adopted. It would be difficult to sidestep this now
    * Can we start this conversation as a way to promote, encourage adoption of SATRE more widely/in the US. Might be more likely to get UK funding than funding JupyterHub since this would be promoting the UK's investment in standardising TREs to an international audience. And use that as a stepping stone to getting JupyterHub funding (by the time we get to this we can maybe pitch it as taking DARE UK investments in K8TRE/FRIDGE/other TREs, and adapting them for a US audience.... which just so happens to include JupyterHub)
* Who would use this?
  * (Related to the politics question)
  * We have a change to significantly improve data protection practices in the US
  * Anyone that wants to enable access to their data in a safe way, "Take our template" (\_e.g.\_, in the UK BioBank)
    * Have we tried this before? DSH, TREEHOOSE. Why did those not get wide adoption?
    * If this has "buy in" from Jupyter, if it is an "official" Jupyter project with multiple stakeholders, how does that improve confidence, does that make it easier to promote and advocate

### Notes for JupyterHub monitoring

* Ankita (BIDS Intern): Hi! I will try to take some notes based on what's being discussed in this breakout room
* Purpose: Developed cost monitoring tool and want to see how to expand to cloud providers 
* Some tools and things to double check on:
  * AWS  - cost explorer API 
  * GCP - service account needed 
  * Running DU will be eating up too many resources on a huge platform/scanning directories (like getting class sizes and times for example) 
* Configuration:
  * Ideally: think of making queries configurable 
    * Use something similar to what Jupyterhub uses for configuration
* Frameworks:
  * Using some sort of EBS volume framework 
  * What is the best framework to use to configure differences?
    * Making configuration general - tackle this
* Vincent: 
* Would like to make the cost monitoring tool more generalized
* Group Exporter should be a small stand-alone thing as a small library
* Exporter works with only github and custom authenticator like OpenID (To Test - Berkeley Bcourses)
* How to shorten analysis time

## 2025-10-29

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

* _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
* Dan Sholler / @dsholler / OrgMyco / Santa Cruz, CA
* Min / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Beth / @bduckles / OrgMyco / Portland, OR 
* Kirstie / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA
* Arielle / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing / Boston, MA

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

* Steve Purves of Curvenote was potentially keen to participate in December at HubDash. He's been using JH to make binders available in some curvenote context.
* Steffan Bollmann is using JH for his NeuroDesk 

### Agenda

* [name=Dan] [time=5 minutes] Team Compass Maintenance Checklist
    * Feedback (useful or not?) https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NcTDX2a06gZ-ayIrqKeV_EebrDE4icx3pjiSowgi7cI/edit?tab=t.0 
    * Previous efforts to do this?
* [name=Dan] [time=2 minutes] Zoom info for future meetings
    * Dan's Zoom - do we need to move this to a JH zoom?  
    * Official JH Zoom account as hosts - should be able to use that going forward. 
    * https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95228013874?password=c200d17b-0fbb-4967-9f36-e7c304c2f7e6
* [name=Kirstie] HubDash emails?
    * Text to come, and list already shared. 
* [name=Arielle] [time=15 minutes] JupyterCon Users meeting
    * Look at working up a template for deployment case study 
        * ACTION: Arielle & Min to work up a template for use in the meeting as an initial test 
    * Longer-term project to revise and update https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/blob/main/docs/source/reference/gallery-jhub-deployments.md with more details from the orgs listed AND team members look for unique cases and skills - can we encourage folks to look at these people and how to engage them in the project? 
* [name=Min] [time=15 minutes] What onboarding stuff to have ready before JupyterCon/HubDash
    * [Jonah's pitch for HubDash work](https://hackmd.io/AvEYKb7iTRGJoofPB8BwqQ) - Is there some of this that should be done before JupyterCon? 
* [name=Kirstie] Voices of JupyterHub blog post?
* [name=Beth] Materials for a potential Mission/Vision conversation at HubDash (not a priority) [Info on the topic](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mZI9JAAxW1rb8y_FhySoAohM1uaU5q23F6hAzUeg1YI/edit?tab=t.0)

## 2025-10-21

### Check-in 💁

Let us know that you're here and how we can stay in touch.

* *Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location*
* Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA
*  Freek Pols / Delft UT / 
*  Robert Lanzafame / @rlanzafame / unemployed civil engineer in California, formerly teacher at TU Delft 
*  Min / @minrk / UC Berkeley / Sebastopol, CA
*  Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yorkshire, UK
*  Arielle Bennett / @arielle-bennett / Turing Institute / Boston, MA
*  Silas Santini / UC Berkeley / Albany, CA
*  Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Cologne, Germany
*  Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c / Oakland, CA, USA
*  Jonathan Guinegagne / @JGuinegagne / AWS / New York, USA
*  Jim Madge / @JimMadge / Alan Turing Institute / Exeter, UK
*  Andrii Ieroshenko / @andrii-i / AWS / South SF Bay Area, CA
*  Wayne Decatur/ @fomightez / Upstate Medical University
*  Ryan Lovett / @ryanlovett / UC Berkeley 

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*Who helped you get started (or get through a difficult patch) contributing to scientific open source projects?*

*  Kirstie: I was rejected for a Mozilla Science Fellowship and went along to MozFest in 2015 anyway (I was so well jelly of the folks who got the fellowship and I was so nervous) - while I was there I participated in "pull request bingo" and got to actually see what reviewing a pull request on the other side - including with merge conflicts - looked like!
    * So I guess I'm saying Abby Cabunoc Mayes and loads of amazing people from the Mozilla Open Science community (as it was then!)
*  Freek: I guess it was Robert who said: you are doing the same thing as we do, let's share and collaborate.
*  Robert: I became a teacher and had to figure out what a Jupyter Notebook was since all **my students** were using them. Now I'm hooked: open source permeated a lot of my work as a teacher, now I am trying to contribute myself.
*  Min: I was a physics student interested in computing, and a professor (Brian Granger) suggested a research project: interactive parallel computing with IPython. That became IPython Parallel and ultimately an early reference for the Jupyter Protocol.
*  Jenny: the lovely and wonderful folks at The Carpentries – needed to run a workshop on Python and lo and behold, ready-baked curricula ready to go 🚀
*  Arielle: I went to a Turing Way Book Dash in 2020 having not really made a PR before and not considering myself technical and got a crash course in GitHub and never looked back :D 
*  Silas: A data science discovery program that matched me with an ecologist in undergrad.
*  Raniere: The open source group existing at my university.
*  Ryan: non-scientific open source projects were a gateway

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

*  [https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/getting-ready-jupytercon-2025-how-uc-berkeley-using-jupyter-support-healthcare-providers](https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/getting-ready-jupytercon-2025-how-uc-berkeley-using-jupyter-support-healthcare-providers)
*  [https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/min-ragan-kelley-and-his-journey-back-bids](https://bids.berkeley.edu/news/min-ragan-kelley-and-his-journey-back-bids)
*  Really lovely event with Chris and Yuvi! CDSS news post coming soon - and there was a student photographer to capture the height difference between Chris and Kirstie 🤣
    * [https://events.berkeley.edu/BIDS/event/306419-ospo-monthly-meetup-launching-the-bids-membership-of-](https://events.berkeley.edu/BIDS/event/306419-ospo-monthly-meetup-launching-the-bids-membership-of-)
*  Turing Way fireside chat on 30 October: [https://the-turing-way-fireside-chats.start.page/](https://the-turing-way-fireside-chats.start.page/)
    * Good Governance Practices for the Long-Term Health of Open Initiatives. This session will feature speakers from 🍄🍄**Organizational Mycology** 🍄🍄 and MetaDocencia.
*  From Dan: loads of JupyterHub love at the CZI Open Science meeting! ✨
*  the review date plugin from Luuk Froling
*  Keeping MyBinder.org running!! THANK YOU Yuvi, Raniere and Simon!!
    * Booooo crypto-miners!
*  JupyterHub will be running a HubDash and end of year celebration 2 \& 3 December - we'll send out more comms about it but if you'd like to register your interest you can fill out this form - takes about 15 mins [https://forms.gle/GrEFrpG8fPSrzuMj9](https://forms.gle/GrEFrpG8fPSrzuMj9)

### Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

Please add topics you'd like to discuss in the list below. We will try to have parallel discussions in breakout rooms to keep everyone chatting and connecting.

Please add your name to any breakout room topics that you'd like to join.

* Build a Jupyter Book tutorial planning
* [Min] Binder 
    * [https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/469744-jupyterhub/topic/Diversifying.20from.20Hetzner.20for.20Mybinder.2Eorg.20Federation/near/546121372](https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/469744-jupyterhub/topic/Diversifying.20from.20Hetzner.20for.20Mybinder.2Eorg.20Federation/near/546121372)
* [Min] Repo2docker release and updating repo2docker to ubuntu 24.04
    * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1417](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1417)
    * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/issues/1420](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/issues/1420)
*  JupyterBook team: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/team-compass/issues/57](https://github.com/jupyter-book/team-compass/issues/57)
* JupyterHub roadmapping workshop in February
* HubDash: Dec 2 \& 3: [https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/811](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/811)
* [Freek] 
    * migrate jb2 to jb1 landing page
    * documentation (extends, pdf export (i can give some input))
    * (not so) plain typst book template
    * css and themes
    * [Andrii, Jonathan] Jupyter-Hub Jupyter-Infra collaboration presentation / slides with links to open source repos: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iltVhp1DcP5UVs7zvg9vJdGUdq0EZLpdJSfYXNS9-hc/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iltVhp1DcP5UVs7zvg9vJdGUdq0EZLpdJSfYXNS9-hc/edit?usp=sharing) . Repos mentioned:
        * jupyter-deploy: CLI wrapper around terraform that allow to deploy JupyterLab from scratch [https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-deploy](https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-deploy)
        * jupyter-k8s: kubernetes operators to run Jupyter+ [https://github.com/jupyter-ai-contrib/jupyter-scheduler-k8s](https://github.com/jupyter-ai-contrib/jupyter-scheduler-k8s)
        * jupyter-scheduler-k8s: JupyterLab extension that enables users to run notebooks as jobs on k8s cluster [https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-k8s](https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-k8s) 

### Notes for JupyterBook tutorial for JupyterCon

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

* Jim, Freek, Robert, Arielle, Kirstie, Silas
* Proposal: [https://mypads2.framapad.org/p/jupyterhub-jupyterbook-collaborationcafe-nr53am9wz](https://mypads2.framapad.org/p/jupyterhub-jupyterbook-collaborationcafe-nr53am9wz)
    * Includes agenda
    * Slides being built at: [https://the-turing-way.github.io/Build-a-Jupyter-Book-with-The-Turing-Way/](https://the-turing-way.github.io/Build-a-Jupyter-Book-with-The-Turing-Way/)
*  Consideration 1: do we install myst locally or not
    * yes, users should install locally; however, the template repo (combined with simple "set up GH Pages" instructions) is a way for anyone to continue with tutorial regardless of successful install
    * just note-bombing here to say that we could provide mybinder.org support: [https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/469744-jupyterhub/topic/Using.20mybinder.2Eorg.20for.20Tutorials.20at.20JupyterCon.3F/with/540235246](https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/469744-jupyterhub/topic/Using.20mybinder.2Eorg.20for.20Tutorials.20at.20JupyterCon.3F/with/540235246) > thanks for the offer! but everything is easily done in GHA (its a simple jupyter book)
*  Consideration 2: do we give the main documentation or lead them by hand through a tutorial
    * We still need to itemize specific tasks for participants to (try to) complete, but the template book should have more in case they are "fast". otherwise, I propose the 4 broad activities below
*  On 1: you probably need some escape option if installing on the spot doesnt work out >> template repo + GHA. The book itself is the instructions, tutorial-ception - but very cool! 
*   Google doc outlining talk schedule is being revised: High level structure of **4 main activities of participants** could be:
    * 1 installation, create your own repo from template, clone (not required), set up GH Pages (a few clicks)
    * 2 edit your (new) book
    * 3 hear an explanation from someone (Angus or Franklin?) about JB2/Myst design that explains things like templates, themes, exports, PDFs, etc (as-needed), to support the final activity: create a PDF of your book
    * 4 watch demo of "really cool crazy stuff"
    * **Attempting to write this down on Tab 2 of the Google Doc:** [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f8TrvQEg2zZtl2hebe6G9MgOb\_bUqum51icA\_jRLCOA/edit?tab=t.qqqh0lz52m84](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f8TrvQEg2zZtl2hebe6G9MgOb\_bUqum51icA\_jRLCOA/edit?tab=t.qqqh0lz52m84)
* Find a permanent home for the "head start template" in the jupyterbook GH org [https://freekpols.github.io/JB2\_book\_template/](https://freekpols.github.io/JB2\_book\_template/)

### Notes for MyBinder

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

* Yuvi
* Min
* Raniere 
* Jonathan Guinegagne
* Andrii Ieroshenko
* Jenny Wong
* Silas Santini
* Ryan Lovett

Hertzner is not a place for cryptominers and they might block 2i2c and GESIS server permanently.

Paths forward?

* ipwhacker – watch for outgoing connections, connect to banned IP = immediate process kill
* diversify from Hetzner
    * disadvantage is that we cannot cache images across providers
    * tested k3s on OVHcloud – image pulls were much slower, maybe not viable next step
    * can we deploy harbor [https://goharbor.io/](https://goharbor.io/)
        * can only pick 3 disk sizes that are all tiny
        * we would need to cull most images every day so that it doesn't fill up
        * might make sense to back this with object storage
        * has nice garbage collection and pruning controls – e.g. can keep the latest 3 versions, keep images from the last 5 days
        * there are now push and pull mirrors
    * BIDS could fund a node
    * proposal
        * put registry on OVH cloud so we have a fallback
        * then we move to harbor – put into rotation once we have mirror
* improving relationship with Hetzner
    * one sentence replies, but different experiences with different people
    * maybe get in touch with the business division

We will try to release repo2docker more often, specially when there are new features.

[Andrii, Jonathan] Jupyter-Hub Jupyter-Infra collaboration presentation / slides with links to open source repos: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iltVhp1DcP5UVs7zvg9vJdGUdq0EZLpdJSfYXNS9-hc/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iltVhp1DcP5UVs7zvg9vJdGUdq0EZLpdJSfYXNS9-hc/edit?usp=sharing) 

Repos mentioned:

* jupyter-deploy: CLI wrapper around terraform that allow to deploy JupyterLab from scratch [https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-deploy](https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-deploy)

* jupyter-k8s: kubernetes operators to run Jupyter+ [https://github.com/jupyter-ai-contrib/jupyter-scheduler-k8s](https://github.com/jupyter-ai-contrib/jupyter-scheduler-k8s)

* jupyter-scheduler-k8s: JupyterLab extension that enables users to run notebooks as jobs on k8s cluster [https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-k8s](https://github.com/jupyter-infra/jupyter-k8s)

## 2025-10-08

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

* Jonah Duckles / @jduckles / Org Mycology / Ōtepoti, Aotearoa
* Arielle / @arielle-bennett / Turing
* Beth Duckles / @bduckles / Org Mycology / Portland, OR 

### Agenda / Notes
* JupyterCon 
    * Ping Kirstie re: JupyterCon housing (deadline is 10/10 or 10/13 for the housing block)
    * Need to amend the budget to send them info re: NumFocus (we worked on this)
* User Hub Workshop: Arielle help re: JupyterCon workshop. 
    * What do you need?
    * Make sure we have people who show up. Emails to attendees went out n=7 + 2i2c 
    * One reply so far. 
    * Promotion closer to the event. 
* Blog post draft, #1 [Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1er1wAQMbvg0FsnErXn5ErZP8T4BjvTNw4GbXMcxhY5Y/edit?tab=t.tujfsp6sfxqt#heading=h.k7l3oko0xz69) #2 forthcoming
* HubDash Planning -
    * Creating onboarding resources and cleaning up Team Compass pages - https://hackmd.io/AvEYKb7iTRGJoofPB8BwqQ

## 2025-10-07

### Check-in 💁

Let us know that you're here and how we can stay in touch.

* *Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location*
* Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Kirstie (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA
* Freek/ @Freek Pols / Delft University of Technology / 
* Jim / @JimMadge / Alan Turing Institute / Exeter, UK
* Simon / @manics / University of Dundee / :scotland:
* Arielle / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing Institute /Boston, USA
* Ryan (he/him) / @ryanlovett / UC Berkeley / California
* Raniere Silva (he / him) / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Germany
* Angus (née Stunning Mustard) / @agoose77 / 2i2c / Rugby, UK
* Ely / @ohrely / Bloomberg / USA
* Rowan / @rowanc1 / Curvenote /
* Erik Sundell / @consideratio / Sundell Open Source
* Franklin Koch / @fwkoch / Curvenote

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What is something you have created that you're proud of?*

* Kirstie: ha - my daughter (lol) - but also I made some cross stitch projects during the pandemic (and before I had a child) and completely loved how they turned out! They were great for listening to audiobooks / podcasts and NOT scrolling on my phone!
* Min: I built an arch over our stairs in Oslo for a climbing rose 
* Freek: an escape the classroom 
* Jim: My knitted lion
* Raniere: a bow on my spiritual retreat
* Angus: a multi-player crossword webapp during COVID
* Ely: Dance choreography algorithm
* Arielle: When I was a kid I made an incredible ceramic dragon inspired by Smaug. I think my mum still has it. Also I am very proud of my house plant collecton which has largely grown through propagation efforts 🪴
* Ryan: a media table out of salvaged oak during Covid

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

*  Kirstie: Community manager funding application submitted!
    * [https://github.com/jupyter-governance/funding-proposals/issues/6](https://github.com/jupyter-governance/funding-proposals/issues/6)
    * Thank you so much to Chris, Arielle and Dan for the edits and the feedback!
    * Fingers crossed
*  Kirstie: SO MANY Jupyter Hub and Jupyter Book sessions at JupyterCon coming up! WOW!
    * Kirstie made a person list covering everyone connected to JH, JB, JupyterHealth, and data science education at UC Berkeley and there are 46 names!
*  JupyterHub 5.4 released
*  repo2docker has a 3.13 base environment: [https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1447](https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/pull/1447)
*  configurable-http-proxy 5.1.0 fixed a longstanding socket leak bug: 
    * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/pull/601](https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/pull/601) 
    * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/issues/557](https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/issues/557)
* Freek: Luuk has made some awesome plugins for JB2.
* Ely: Jupyter Open Studio Day in San Francisco on Monday, November 10th.  Register at [https://go.bloomberg.com/attend/invite/jupyter-open-studio-day-november-10-2025/](https://go.bloomberg.com/attend/invite/jupyter-open-studio-day-november-10-2025/)

### Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

* JupyterBook / MyST prioritization -- Stéfan (?? Kirstie's added this)
 * Bump this to next time / async
* Build a Jupyter Book tutorial planning -- Jim, Freek, Robert (?? Kirstie's added this) +1
* Voices of Jupyter Hub blog review (?? Kirstie's added this)
* Users of JupyterHub tutorial at JupyterCon -- Arielle (?? Kirstie's added this)
* Task automation / consistency for contributors:
 * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/821](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/821)
 * [https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/819](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/819)
* Z2JH minor release preparation with JupyterHub 5.4 and CHP -- Erik (Erik added this) +1 

### Notes for JupyterBook Tutorial

* Need to map workshop sections to template lessons
* We discussed whether we wanted people to install locally vs building something from the cloud
 * Expectation is that most attendees should be familiar with Jupyter, probably comfortable installing packages and using the command line
 * Local has advantages in a workshop
  * Faster build time (and iteration on changes)
  * Easier to debug problems (compared to build in CI)
 * Probably prefer building locally, with a starting point with working GitHub actions for build/deploy as an alternative
* People who start from installing JupyterBook, need a way to get up to the same place as folks who might be following on from the online tutorial  
  * git --clone? Or a zip file or a release of the template  
  * Is the documentation also coherent with the paper, talk, workshop etc? Want to make sure they all line up! 
  * Talk will be history, case studies, will link to the JB2 - do need to clean up the whole ecosystem to pull this together 
  * Tutorial just started as a project for our own university :p would love to let it 'adopt' by JB2 so that it aligns better with all the documentation and ecosystem! Whether it is already the moment I am not sure. I guess some more tweaks and lessons / tutorial materials are needed.
* What edits can we make to this page: [https://next.jupyterbook.org/start/](https://next.jupyterbook.org/start/)

## 2025-10-1

### Check-in

* _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
* Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California 
* Arielle (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / Boston, MA
* Beth (she/her)/ @bduckles / Portland, OR 
* Dan (he/him) / @dsholler / Santa Cruz, CA
* Jonah (he/him) / [@jduckles](https://github.com/jduckles) / Dunedin, OR
* Kirstie (she/her) / @kirstiejane / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs 

* Roadmap workshop proposal accepted! :tada: 
* Pretty proud of myself for getting the Collaboration Cafe documentation updated in the JupyterHub team compass! :sparkles: 
  * https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/816 

### Agenda / Notes

* End-of-year HubDash
    * Remote first 
    * European/African and North/South American working times (during business days of those regions)
    * Overlap times as possible for joint / community celebrations
    * Trial the roadmapping workshop structure at the end of the year HubDash workshop. 
    * Sessions: Focused working time in Europe, break then a sych session with US & Europe, break, then US session. Celebration sessions (shared sessions). 
    * Host tracks/topics to guide breakout subjects. 
        * As simple as documentation, PRs ready that are for that
        * Onboarding session beforehand. Coopt the structures JH already has. 
        * Subsistence allowance and money - merch to share with people.  
    * Min & Kirstie to invite contributors to lead HubDash tracks.  
    * To do: OM and Arielle 
        * Come up with tools to share/market this. 
        * Create the application 
        * Merch? 
            * Socks? tshirt? stickers? mug? 
            * Something specific for this group 
* VOJupyterHub Blog Post 1 [Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1er1wAQMbvg0FsnErXn5ErZP8T4BjvTNw4GbXMcxhY5Y/edit?tab=t.tujfsp6sfxqt#heading=h.iuhl7t6l73xl)
* Planning roadmap workshop - 
    * Hubdash will be a trial session to soft-test the apparoach and how it works for JH. 
* Users of JH Workshop for JupyterCon 
* JupyterCon Prep 
    * Getting folks from CalPoly/UCSD area to come to JupyterCon who could be at the user panel. 

## 2025-09-24

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

* _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
* Min / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Beth Duckles /@bduckles / Org Mycology / Portland, OR 
* Arielle / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing / Boston, MA
* Dan / @dsholler / OrgMycology / Santa Cruz, CA

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

* Org Mycology
* Turing Way conversation on Governance! Org Myco are going to speak at one of them! 
* Sign up form here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScSM4sByvAtAk-TBjZogW4l5X0L1cKSIgUtlmRlitb1_dsQuQ/viewform
* JupyterHub workshop proposal submitted! :tada:

### Agenda

* [Conversation about logistics for future of JH Collab Cafes](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/810) (5 mins)
    * Scheduling community stuff is HARD. 
* [Planning the Remote-first HubDash](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/811)  12/2-3 planning for this event. 
    * What are the priorities? Goals? 
        * Celebration
        * Doing things!
    * Invitation - save the date 
        * Also send out emails 
        * Will there be an application? 
            * Open interest form is a good idea. 
            * Post this on the forum and the blog. 
    * Suggestions for the structure 
        * Have work sessions in morning - afternoon for overlapping session with discussion 
        * Then later time zones working as folks go to bed. 
        * Emphasis on celebration - go through everyone sharing what they've done in the past year. Sharing something they're proud of - contributions they like. Cool PRs? In person convos? (model how other people have contributed) 
        * Second day: discussion - look at all the cool stuff we've done. 
        * Individual accomplishment - but also have someone celebrate the accomplishments of the project as a whole - look at the cool science that has been done, the cool grants we have gotten. (Min). This is the big picture of what we've done and how we've made an impact. 
    * Best practices from Arielle based on Turing Way BookDash 
        * Emphasize - people want to get a thing over the line before the end of the year - this is the time to cowork and get that thing done. 
        * Explicit about coming to an onboarding session - with a low overhead. Collab cafe a couple of weeks before - this is the onboarding session. Everyone is going to write down goals for what to achieve in Hubdash. Makes sure everyone is focused for the day. "You want to work on ___ feature, so does someone else"
        * Goal setting call 
        * If folks are brand new, we have people who are dedicated to doing the newbie onboarding. This can be a tradeoff. 
        * Concerns that we don't spend too much time onboarding newbies. Application/invitation form that we will hopefully invite newcomers - but won't have brand new people on the call. 
        * Brand new folks can come along to the celebration and learn about the project and engage with the discussions
        * New folks: could trial the onboarding materials. If you've never contributed, join for the celebration, what do you need to get up to speed? (Could just be one hour) "What do you need to get onboard for JH?"
        * Make the decision if we get people who are interested who are newbies.
        * Git hub training for Turing Way newbies - not quite what you'd need for someone who is a newbie to JH. 
    *  What is the minimum agenda framework we need to put out the call for HubDash?
        *  Celebration 
        *  Doing things 
            *  We cocreate these
    *  Dash Event Segments 
        * Contribution session - 2.5 hours max pomodoros kind of like a collab cafe. You have a host for each session. No chit chat, go straight into that (1 or 2 in the am, one during lunchtime UK, go to 10pm UK/5pm US time - depending on interest). Could ask people what time slots they're able to show up to. 
* Having something like Workshop Tracks to help prepare the facilitators to limit the scope of what prepared to facilitate? 
    *  Getting started/facilitating - working on the onboarding documentation this fall. Test driving the onboarding documentation. Put yourself in the persona of a new contributor going through onboarding documentation. 
    * Documentation review?
    * Repo Triage? 
* How do we come up with these tracks?
    * Seed some in an issue - solicit feedback? Set a deadline 
    *  Limited by facilitators - whatever is the best path towards understanding facilitator capacity and contributor interest. 
        *  Start with the facilitators?
        *  Need european and US leader - that narrows it down. 
    *  Don't need to have a TON of tracks, but finding folks who would be willing to lead a session in a time zone that suits them.  
* Next step: Ask in Zulip who would like to co-lead a track with another person. (e.g. Documentation) - nudging people who might want to do these things. 
* Resources from Turing Way Bookdash - what materials could we build from?
    * [Example of Bookdash Materials](https://github.com/the-turing-way/bookdash/blob/main/organisers-files/organisers_files-2022/2022-nov-index.md) 
    * Taking examples from bookdash but not all of it -  JH uses different infrastructure! 
    * Offer funds for accessiblity and food for folks during the event. 
* Calling it HubDash? 
    * Leaning on the BookDash as a default unless we come up with something else. 
    * Logo - unofficial named chompy. 

### Possible breakouts/topics 

* Sketch out and write blog posts for Voices of JupyterHub 
* Mapping activities onto the calendar (Next week?)
    * Want to have a list of the things - and some sense of what to do 
    * Perhaps an issue in the team compass and automate some issues to be opened automatically (always the option to close it/say it's not doable) Automated nudges. 
        * Monthly priority list?
        * Issues?
        * You said this was important is it still? 
        * Templates for different activities. 
    * If we're too busy to check things, we don't check it. Infrastructure - we do something every so often - 
        * Issues on the team compass are a good fit for this. They stay open until they're closed. 
        * Issue templates 
        * What is the snooze button? (just having it open might just be all that's needed)

## 2025-09-17

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

* _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
* Jonah Duckles / @jduckles / OrgMycology / ōtepoti, Aotearoa 
* Beth Duckles / @bduckles / OrgMycology/ Portland, OR 
* Dan Sholler / @dsholler / OrgMycology / Santa Cruz, CA
* Min RK / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Kirstie Whitaker / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley / California, USA

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

### Possible breakouts/topics 

* Explaining the bot - [Yuvi]
    * Scaling maintainer intuition 
    * Allows you to prioritize. 
    * Enables contribution. 
* Planning the meeting [OM]
    * Original grant that fudned us - two leadership workshops - one in the US and one in Europe. We had the one in the US. 
    * Fully remote meeting for all as a consensus. In order for most people to make it, it's remote. 
    * This meeting is meant to be celebratory and kind of a working goal-based event, let's recap the year in JH. Encouraging it to happen yearly. 
        * This opens the door for inviting different groups. 
        * Agenda is more flexible to accomplishing things you want to work on. 
    * JupyterHub Hackathon? where we do some celebrating? Not for beginners. For contributing to JH. 
        * Remote first Roadmap workshop - modeling it on the Bookdash (Hubdash?)
        * Prototyping that with an event this year. Can't call it a bookdash. 
        * Is it an invite event where it's a shoulder tap of valued or potential contributors. Or have an application process and invite people to apply. 
        * Tracks in mind for the event who are focused on beginner things as well as tracks that are focused on other topics. 
        * Tracks - I'm intrested in (documentation, and other) 
    * Dates 
        * December 2-3rd are the dates
        * Kirstie to send a save the date. 
        * OM to create a form for application.  
* Voices of JH Report blog posts - drafting (did this last week) 
    * [Link to report](http://voicesofjupyterhub.orgmycology.com)
* Jitsi vs zoom links for collab cafe 
    * September - keep the auxilliary cafes
    * October - have more collab cafes for JH shortening to one hour. 
    * [Issue talking about meeting times](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/738)
    * Tie this into Arielle's talks of automating issue bots etc.

## 2025-09-16

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

* _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
* Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Arielle (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing / Boston, MA
* Stéfan / @stefanv / BIDS (UC Berkeley)
* Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS
* Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
* Dan / @dsholler / OrgMycology
* Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yorkshire, UK
* Angus Hollands (he/him) / @agoose77 / 2i2c / Rugby, UK
* Beth Duckles (she, her) / @bduckles / OrgMycology / Portland, OR 
* Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / BIDS (UC Berkeley)
* Matt Fisher (he) / @mfisher87 / Schmidt DSE
* Chris Holdgraf, he / @choldgraf / 2i2c and Jupyter Executive Council
* Erik Sundell / @consideRatio / Sundell Open Source / Uppsala, Sweden
* Freek Pols / @FreekPols / Delft University of Technology / Netherlands

### Getting to know each other! :wave: 

_Whether you're new to the communities or an old hand, please answer the icebreaker here_ 

:ice_cube::hammer: What is a book you like to recommend?

* [name=Min] - The once and future witches - Alix E Harrow
* [name=Arielle] Anything by Terry Prachett is my go-to!
* X [name=Dan] Limbo by Alfred Lubrano (nonfiction) The Sun Also Rises by Ernest Hemingway (fiction)
* [name=Beth] The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russell (jesuits in spaaaacccceee)
* X
* Yuvi: Atlast of the Heart by Brene Brown
* [name=Jenny] Falling Leaves/Chinese Cinderella – Adeline Yen Mah
* [name=Stéfan] The Whisperwicks: Labyrinth of Lost and Found — great read with kids (audiobook by Nathaniel Curtis is :sparkle:)
* [name=Samuel] To Your Scattered Bodies Go - Philip José Farmer
* [name=Kirstie] Urgh - so boring - emergent strategy
* [name=Matt] _A Different Trek_ (recommended by Yuvi :) )
* [name=Chris] Station Eleven and Demon Copperhead are the two I've read most recently that stood out. I'm now reading David Copperfield and hooooo it is long lol.
* [name=Freek] Made with Creative Commons

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

* Welcome Min to BIDS :clap: :tada: 
* Well done do all those who submitted community workshop proposals! :tada:
* Thanks to the Jupyter Book community for reviewing and giving feedback/edits for [the JB2 SciPy paper](https://github.com/jupyter-book/team-compass/issues/37)
* Thanks to Brian H for doing some [gnarly bug investigation in the MyST theme](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/648)
* [Voices of JupyterHub Report](https://voicesofjupyterhub.orgmycology.com/execsummary) has been released. Stay tuned for more blog posts on the report! 
* Plausible analytics! https://plausible.io/jupyter.org
* Open Education global nominee: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_bXmkgm9EgDCgyNzRUYmSOo_tz3LHzGyugchUpBtlzQ/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.3ila9maqec04

### Agenda :clock2: 

* [name=Min] (5m) JupyterHealth Update
    * https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/807
* [name=Your name] (5m) Topic 
* Yuvi: pr review board [3m]

### Possible Breakouts

* mybinder.org incidents (if enough of Raniere, Simon, Yuvi are available)
    * Samuel
* Proposals for the Foundation Community Fund - closing 28 September
    * Erik
    * Chris
    * Min
    * https://jupyterfoundation.org/community-funding-proposals/
    * https://blog.jupyter.org/your-ideas-our-support-jupyter-community-call-for-funding-proposals-f4642590ae76
    * https://github.com/jupyter-governance/funding-proposals/issues/6
    * > Keep your budget reasonable; **smaller budget proposals tend to have a higher acceptance rate**. That said, don’t hesitate to be ambitious! We want to see creative and impactful ideas.
    * Goal: Organizational culture change
        * Needs to  
* Users of JupyterHub workshop planning for Nov [Users of JupyterHub workshop at JupyterCon 2025 #794](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/794)
    * Dan
    * Arielle
    * Jenny
    * Beth
    * Samuel
* myst/JBv2 roadmap/prioritization/feature requests/catch-up
    * Stéfan
    * Brian
    * Matt
    * Chris
* [save for another time/second half] Community activity mapping against the community calendar

#### Funding proposals

- KW: Project Manager type of role would really help

#### Myst breakout

Matt: Thanks for the awesome notes, Angus!

* [Planning board](https://github.com/orgs/jupyter-book/projects/1) — priority + side quest 

* Items people want to see prioritized:
  * [name=Chris], [name=Scientific Python], [name=Matt]: [#840 - Views of content / document listings based on page metadata (e.g. for blogs, site navigation, etc)](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/840)
  * [name=Chris]: [#1616 - Allow plugins access to the state of all MyST documents via post-build event hooks](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1616)
  * [name=Matt]: Absolute paths
    - Then linking to another document you *have* to use relative links. Need to be able to link using absolute paths!
    - Mentioned also at https://mep.myst-tools.org/en/latest/meps/mep-0002/
    - Regression from JBv1
  * [name=Matt]: [Single ToC -> main sections](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2028)
    - May have, e.g., contributor guide and user guide, linked at top, but each a separate sections with own ToC
    - Example: https://jupytergis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    - [name=Angus] Somewhat similar to "pathways" feature of Turing Way; feels a bit like a theme feature
    - Part/Section in main ToC would not help in this case, unless you start with a collapsed side-bar and then allow to expand one section at a time

* How to track non-strategic / roadmap items (issues become a dumping ground)
  * https://github.com/yuvipanda/pr-triage-board-bot
    * https://github.com/orgs/geojupyter/projects/3/views/1
    * https://github.com/orgs/jupyterlab/projects/11/views/1
    * Some of that can be handled by GH search; bot does some fancier changed files analysis etc.
    * Can we do something like this for issues? E.g. issues with no maintainer engagement?
  * Not clear whether that isn't better served by a search, for developers who want to see that information
  * Planners should perhaps be populated by humans?

* Matt: A registry of useful plugins. Maybe just in the README or docs. I often struggle to find plugins. Also, I wrote [a plugin for emoji shortcodes](https://github.com/mfisher87/mystmd-plugin-emoji-shortcodes/blob/main/emoji-shortcodes.mjs) (with significant help ;) ), and I'd like people to be able to find it!
  * https://github.com/TUD-JB-Templates/JB2_plugins
  * Four listing plugins out there!
  * Should we host all maintained plugins in a central repo?
  * The way Freek is working on plugins it:
    ```
    plugins:
    - https://github.com/TUD-JB-Templates/JB2_plugins/releases/download/example/example.mjs
    - https://github.com/TUD-JB-Templates/JB2_plugins/releases/download/experiment/experiment.mjs
    ```
  * Lightweight structure that compiles and publishes regularly

* [name=Freek] TeachBooks: https://teachbooks.io/, https://github.com/TeachBooks/template
  * Interested in building typst book layout
  * `myst init` not really helpful for getting up and running, even though it gives you the basic myst skeleton
  * JBv2 also has this goal of intentionally simplified interface
  * typst export currently goes straight to typst, but would be good to export macros and have template implement those
  * epub support currently missing in myst
  * Plugin available with transforms IFrames — to QR codes in pdf for print:https://github.com/TUD-JB-Templates/JB2_plugins/blob/main/plugins/iframe2.mjs

* Funding
  - Jupyter Book team funding from Jupyter Community Proposals?
  - What would a good community / "project manager" look like?
    - Most lightweight way to prioritize useful work, make it visible, encourage review
    - Service to community and maintainers
    - Will probably be a bit challenging initially; will need to iterate to find good fit
  - Funding range? This is explorative from Jupyter side. Not full time funding; for a project.

* Prioritized items
  - Lightweight decision making can probably b

## 2025-09-10

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
- Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
- Beth Duckles (she/her) / Org Mycology / Portland, OR
- Dan Sholler (he/him) / OrgMycology / Santa Cruz, CA

### Getting to know each other! :wave:


:ice_cube::hammer: What is a book you like to recommend?

* [name=Beth] The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russell (Jesuits in spaaaaaacccee)
* [name=Min] the long way to a small angry planet, Becky Chambers

* [name=Dan] Limbo by Alfred Lubrano
* [name=Jason] The Most Boring Book Ever by Brandon Sanderson and Kazu Kibuishi


### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

* moving the community workshop deadline!
* Soft launch of Voices of JupyterHub Report!

### Agenda :clock2:


- [name=Min] (10m) comms launch of Voices of JupyterHub
    - Where can we blog about it?
        - **Jupyter Project Blog**
        - Ask for reflection blog posts from regular bloggers
            - Chris Holdgraf
            - Paul Ivanov
        - Discussion around how that process went in JH - how to apply process to other Jupyter communities.
        - Put some discussion posts into discourse.
        - Socials: https://jupyter.org/social
    - How should we split things up?
        - How many? (n=3) Where we are, where we've been and where we're going. Digest? themes?
        - Goals: Driving people to the report, sharing information, distilling recommendations from report, encouraging anyone who wants to come to JupyterCon discussion
        - Can we also drive community conversation?

    - [name=Jason] For the Jupyter Community Committee report, we had an executive summary which basically became our blog post: https://blog.jupyter.org/community-building-report-project-jupyter-5a0fd7c8b08d
- [name=Min] (15m) community workshop proposal (due this week)
    - [draft](https://hackmd.io/PgMzPOFaQLaEa0k1kIMv2Q)
    - [issue](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805)
    - reference: CarpentryCon remote, 24hr hackathons, MozFest
    - Question about facilitation plan, templates: Turing Way
    - Output: template, materials for similar workshops
    - meta-discussion about facilitation, how it's going, what we're doing
    - good idea to trial an async sprint (ref: Turing Way Book Dash), ideally before JupyterCon, maybe on onboarding docs
    - reiterated many times, important: **talk to Arielle**
- [name=Your name] (5m) Topic
-


### Break out sessions

_Please add your own breakout if you need to bring together community members around a topic_

#### Breakout Topics

1. [Onboarding Documentation](https://hackmd.io/AvEYKb7iTRGJoofPB8BwqQ) (Jonah)
    * Goal: Draft community onboarding page for inclusion in Team Compass / Project Documentation.

1. Communications Plan for [Voices of JupyterHub Report]([orgmycology.com/voicesofjupyterhub](https://voicesofjupyterhub.orgmycology.com/intro))
    * Where can we/should we post blog posts?
        *
    * Section-by-section or some other series?
        * Break up into sections
        * Insight into process of developing each section
        * **Break them up by recommendations**
    * Authorship
        * OM drafts, Min reviews and edits
    * Goals:
        * Get eyeballs on the report
        * Distill recommendations from the report
        * Teasing JupyterCon talk in each post


#### Possible Future Breakout Topics (please add yours!)

1. Presenting the [Community Calendar](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kaVq_HEDvmvALP8A_Njh4AAlOqnGNcqH81WRbtVS72s/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.9ysmvy7hviy9) (OM)
    * Goal: Establishing the priorities for future Auxilary Collaboration Cafes
    * Goal: Mapping existing activities onto the calendar
1. Users of JH planning meeting (Arielle)
    * Goal: How to engage the groups installing JHs around the world more.
    * Goal: Plan the specific session for JupyterCon in November


## 2025-09-02

### Check-in 
- _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_

- Jonah Duckles / @jduckles / OrgMycology / Ōtepoti, Aotearoa (Dunedin, New Zealand)
- Min RK / @minrk / Berkeley / Sebastopol, CA, USA
- Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / California, USA
- Beth Duckles / @bduckles / Org Mycology / Portland, OR 
- Arielle Bennett / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing Way / London, UK (for now)
- Dan Sholler / @dsholler / Organizational Mycology / Santa Cruz, CA, USA

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

- The Org Mycology team is soft launching the Voices of JupyterHub report today - check it out!: https://voicesofjupyterhub.orgmycology.com/intro

### Break out sessions 

#### Breakout Topics

##### OM + Kirstie - Plan the JH leadership retreat (30 minutes)

* Goal: Date and agenda for leadership retreat 
  * Suggest 4 hours per day - morning Pacific time zone
* Goal: Blog posts highlighting chapters of the VOJH report. 

* Two days of 3-4 hours with break - getting into discussions and work. Plus time on the third day 
    * Allow folks to do asynch work/homework. 
    * Goals?
        * Mission/vision
        * Implementing the calendar
* Building momentum via the collab cafes
* Report 
    *  Make sure we share what's in the report before we have the meeting. 
    *  Instead of a leadership retreat, more of a strategic alignment retreat. 
    *  Community sprint? 
    *  JupyterCon will take up brain space. 
    *  End of year reflection retreat? Celebratory thing? With a bit of reflection?  
    *  Sounds like a book dash. 

#####  Jupyter Community Workshops - deadline this week 

* Q: How often will these be happening? 
* At least Yearly - plan is to have continuous coverage. Hoping to fund three workshops. 

##### [Yuvi's PR Triage bot](https://github.com/orgs/jupyterhub/projects/4/) (Yuvi) 

* Goal: Introduce the bot and talk about how to use it more broadly. 
* [GitHub Repo for Bot Development](https://github.com/yuvipanda/pr-triage-board-bot)
* Notes: 
  * Broad perspecive is that maintaing a large project is difficult. 
  * People have been writing scripts and methods to improve triage of PRs
  * GitHub has made a lot of this kind of workflow simpler. 
  * Yuvi has created a script which pulls together information via GitHub projects. 
  * Goal with this tool is to help the developers maintain
      * Finding easy PRs you can merge
      * Trying to understand different types of contributors and accept PRs from across those cohorts.
      * This should help sort and organize PRs across various axes. 
      * Prior to this work on Labels was attempted, but there are a lot of stale labels
  * Treating the PRs as a database which allows us to annotate PRs more richly. 
  * Board is marde by a 🤖 for humans to consume. 
  * jupyterhub-contrib may be a new org on GitHub to try and manage more community repositories. 
  * Next Steps - 
      * Yuvi had not intended to realease this just yet, but the secret is out and people are finding it very useful. 
      * Jupyter Lab is testing the Bot now and is finding it really useful. 
      * Move field definitions into the code. This should allow
      * The project is two parts:
          * All the fields that the bot uses - depends on field definitions and the DB schema
          * All of the views are another part 
      * Sociotechnical work to do
          * Trying to create views which can prioritize merge parties or other kinds of activities
  * Todo: Make an action which makes it easy to deploy
  * Todo: Make the schema moved into the codebase
  * Workshop Idea - How to increase maintainer capacity and attract new contributors using PR Triage Bot as a foundation. 
  * Currently: Very good for finding inactive PRs and asking for next-actions. 
  * Idea: Another state view of previously active PRs that are now waiting for feedback. Bringing forward stalled PRs.
  * What would this look like for issues? 
  * What do we want to bring to zero? 
      * No maintainer action in the last 7-days


## 2025-08-19

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

- Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Germany
- Michał Krassowski / @krassowski / Quansight / UK

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

- Raniere has done amazing work to to get to the bottom of hard to debug intermittent CI failures in binderhub!!

### Agenda :clock2: 

1. Security funding ideas from Jupyter

   More details of the funding in https://github.com/jupyter/security/issues/113.

### Notes

#### Security funding ideas from Jupyter

Regarding security, there are three important subprojects in the JupyterHub project:

1. JupyterHub server to orchestrate deployment of container images
2. BinderHub server to create container images from Git repositories
3. mybinder.org offering

JupyterHub uses authentication and any vulnerability in the user authentication opens the doors for bad actors to use the Kubernetes cluster.

JupyterHub might use old container images that include vulnerabilities that have been public disclosed. The use of such old container image opens the possibility for bad actors to exploit the system.

BinderHub uses a base image that is not updated regularly. Making it easy for users to pull new versions? On MyBinder the users may need to update the image if they customize dockerfile (but then they need to update refrence, if they are pointing to old commit it won't help much), otherwise they depend on maintainers changing the version, which happens once (a year?) and is a manual process. Could we conntribute new dependabot rules to nudge binder repos on GitHub to update versions? Potentially limitted utility given the dependency hell

mybinder.org struggles with cryptominers and other illicit activity, there is https://github.com/cryptnono/cryptnono which may benefit from help

## 2025-07-15

### Attendees

- _Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location_
- Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA, USA
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Dan Sholler (he, him) / @dsholler / dan [at] orgmycology.com / Organizational Mycology / Santa Cruz, CA, USA
- Min RK (he/him) / @minrk / Simula / Sebastopol, CA
- Angus Hollands (he/him) / @agoose77 / 2i2c & Jupyter Book / Rugby, UK
- Simon Li (he/him) / @manics / University of Dundee / 🇬🇧
- Beth Duckles (she/her) @bduckles / Organizational Mycology / Portland, OR USA 
- Kyle Cheng (he/him) / @kcheng0222 / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA, USA
- Tyler Hawthorne (she/her) / @TylerGHawthorne / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA, USA
- Jamilah Karah (she/her)
- Stéfan van der Walt (he/him) / @stefanv / Berkeley Institute for Data Science
- Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yorkshire, UK :tea: 
- Rowan Cockett (he/him) / @rowanc1 / Curvenote, Continuous Science FOundation, Jupyter Book / Canmore, Canada 
- Arielle Bennett (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing Institute, UK / BUT currently in Boston, MA, USA
- Freek Pols (he/him) / Delft University of Technolgy, the Netherlands
- Franklin Koch (he/him) / @fwkoch / Curvenote, Jupyter Book / Calgary
- Matt Fisher (he) / @mfisher87 / Schmidt DSE / Boulder, CO area
- Ryan Lovett (he/him) / @ryanlovett / UC Berkeley / S.F. Bay Area
- Brigitta Sipőcz (she/her) / @bsipocz / Caltech-IPAC / Seattle, WA
- Chris Holdgraf (he) / @choldgraf / 2i2c and Jupyter Executive Council, Emeryville, CA
- Jason Grout (he) / @jasongrout / Jupyter Executive Council / Phoenix, AZ, USA


### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

-  _replace with celebration_
- Kirstie - Presentations at SciPy!
    - Who presented? How did it go?!
    - Franklin, Angus JupyterBook 2!
    - Franklin Scipy Proceedings
- Chris Thanks Brigitta for [releasing MyST-NB 1.3.0](https://github.com/executablebooks/MyST-NB/releases/tag/v1.3.0) 
    - We really appreciate you Brigitta!! 
- Chris We've got a lightweight [roadmapping and prioritization process defined here](https://mystmd.org/guide/contributing#what-should-i-work-on) we are running it as an experiment, thanks Stefan for merging it in.
- Chris A bunch of new releases in July! 🚀
    - [myst-theme v0.17](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/releases/tag/myst-to-react%400.17.0)
    - [mystmd 1.5.0](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/releases/tag/mystmd%401.5.0)
- Freek Presentation at GIREP conference on JB in education and workshop on our demobook.

### Agenda :clock2: 

_Add items to discuss below to build the agenda for the meeting. Include your name so we know who to give the floor to. Try to give an estimate of how long you expect the discussion will take so we can effectively manage time. (We know this is hard, just do your best!) If we receive a lot of agenda points, we may use breakout rooms to facilitate parallel disussion in order to get through as many points as possible._


- Name (estimated time): _Topic_
- Kirstie 3 mins: Introducing the BIDS interns
- Kirstie 10 mins: JupyterCon submissions +3
    - Call for proposals: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/jupytercon/program/cfp/
    - Deadline extended to Sunday, July 20 at 11:59 PM PDT (UTC -7)
    - Could we collect together submission ideas please?
        - JupyterHub: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/788
            - Dan: Findings from users interviews
            - Jenny Submission about "observability with Prometheus and Grafana" related to group-level monitoring work that she has undertaken recently.
                - Kirstie: Suggested 10 minute talk
            - Arielle Would like to submit a user workshop on JupyterHub, Kirstie suggests a workshop on "Build your own Jupyter Book".
               - happy to workshop this with folks!
            - Org Mycology is submitting a talk on Voices of JupyterHub project 
            - Yuvi Planning to submit talk(s). JupyterHub __ manifests. JupyterHub fancy profiles. New models of supporting upstream OSS, avoiding extractive relationship. Re-issue [You don't need to contribute more to OSS, you need to go to therapy](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10BfUM_Alq-8Iquuw9d4HHou7X43jLMGI9GMpK2UKlKc/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p)?
        - JupyterBook (no issue yet?)
            - Angus I do not yet know what I would be talking about. But I would like to!
                - Rowan Check your DMs, Angus! There's the start of a proposal...
                - Maybe same talk from SciPy - likely a different audience
            - Kirstie / Jim / Arielle? - Build your own JupyterBook demo / tutorial?
            - Brigitta I'm also planning to put in some tutorial CI related abstract. I haven't yet looked into the details of what talk slots exist.  
        - Other
            - Matt [GeoJupyter](https://geojupyter.org/) workshop. Goal to convert more people to contributors (code or other). **Looking for collaborators if you're interested!**
                - Min Expected JupyterCon to be biased towards corporate folks, but would like to push back against that tendency in the content we bring to the conference.
            - Min  JupyterHealth workshop on connecting to health exchange and analyzing (public, not sensitive) health data
    - Kirstie People should submit ideas even if they're not sure about being able to make the conference. There may be support available.
-  Kirstie (10 mins): SciPy debrief +3
    - Franklin and Angus - well received - standing room only!!
        - Good to have exposure - got some useful feedback around the education usecase
            - How would I use Jupyterbook in the classroom?
        - Content in 25 mins was ambitious BUT nucleated the start of a lot of different discussions / ongoing conversations
        - Went really well! "It was a great talk, a couple of us were even ditching our own tracks for it 😃"
        - Would like to harmonise the different experiences across in-browser compute (on the page via Thebe on JupyterHub/BinderHub, externally via JupyterLab on JupyterHub/BinderHub, and combinations thereof with JupyterLite/Pyodide/Emscripten-Forge). On the JB side, the configuration and UX needs work, and we also don't support JupyterLite _yet_ (but we do support Pyodide for Thebe).
    - Yuvi
        - Talk about status of MyBinder. "Who has given up on MyBinder because it's not reliable?" Lots of hands raised. Trying to rebuild trust: "Lots of recent improvements, please try it again!" We may have lost trust, but not goodwill.
            - Good sense of hope - opportunity to build back
        - Jupyter plenary - 3 mins for all of Jupyter!
        - Live demos all worked :grin:
        - Talk on You don’t need to contribute more to Open Source, You need to go to Therapy
            - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14udTKVf_-2o1T59Pqt20l3HfeAgaEsAMxDi7tsbwvvo/edit?usp=sharing
        - Another reflection - some discussions around dask :shushing_face: [purposefully kept vague for github archive!]
    - Brigitta I didn't do much Jupyter related things and got very tired by Sunday evening.
        -  We had a very good Maintainers' track with quite diverse topics from technicals to onboarding to be a maintainer, to a well received diversity talk (that I missed due to clashing with JB2).
        - I was also very happy with the keynotes.
        - We had a lot of discussions on how to push back on gen AI overtaking all the tracks; at the end the program was overall great but we had a lot of issues with the abstracts and with the reviews.
        - Sprints: 
            - 19+ projects got pitched (most of the time it really is multiple actual projects per pitch)
            - ~100-150 people stayed for Sat (I haven't looked at the photos yet, but it was full house for pitching).
            - lots of onboarding (we had ~15 people doing the "open your first PR" session on Friday), but also xarray/zarr/napari teams were using the space and time to do some team deep dives  
    - Franklin SciPy Proceedings are getting submitted using MyST. All the authors seem happy
        - you can see all the PRs here with previews, metadata checks, etc: https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings
    - Broader reflection - lots of conversation about LLMs... felt in some spaces 
        - Malvika's keynote was much more nuanced than just "LLMs are great" vs "LLMs are bad", and in particular surfaced the fact that AI/LLM don't exist in a vacuum.
- OrgMycology 5 mins: Creating a calendar to move along important project development topics [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kaVq_HEDvmvALP8A_Njh4AAlOqnGNcqH81WRbtVS72s/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.9ysmvy7hviy9) +3
    - Kirstie: I feel like this should be more than 5 mins?? Maybe 5 mins and then a break out room?
    - Beth: That's fine we'd be happy to to talk to folks in a breakout room if there's interest. 
    - Min / Yuvi - really like this! 
        - What's the next thing that we want to do? What are the practical first steps towards meeting this vision?
    - Important to remember that this work is funded from a DEI grant
     
- Re JB priorities board and side-quest category:

    - Brigitta I love the side quest, too. It's targeting people like Stefan and I, who we could argue know how to contribute, but have way less time than those whose primary responsibilities are the JB --> we want to do stuff that doesn't step on toes of the core team but that are meaningful. (these are certainly not the "good first issue" category stuff as that is traditionally targeted for total outsiders -- open source or even to programming 
- Chris If we have team quorum, I'd love folks to brainstorm items we'd like to use in filling our [priority and sidequest lists](https://github.com/orgs/jupyter-book/projects/1) +3
    - Stéfan Suggestion: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/1603 
    - Angus Suggestion: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2019 or https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1026 
- Kirstie 10 mins (breakout room?): timing of JupyterHub synchronous meetings
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/790
    - This meeting currently clashes with the ScientificPython Learn meeting too (although that's a new meeting so might move!)
- Chris If time, Chris would like feedback on whether a Contributor in Residence type of role would be useful to JupyterHub or Jupyter Book, and what kind of work they'd do. This is for a [draft proposal he's working on](https://github.com/jupyter-governance/jupyter-foundation-governing-board/issues/27) +1[^angus]
    - Kirstie - lets put this in the second hour as I think Chris might be able to join then?


### Notes
- How are people finding moving from JB1 to JB2? 
    - Would be valuable to hear from the user perspective on how this is going! 
- How is the book roadmap going? Interested in lessons learnt and what else can be bought into other Jupyter projects
- More info about the [Voices of JupyterHub Report](https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS). 
- Notes from OM discussion on the calendar:  
    - Having anything scheduled in July is a bad idea (from a norwegian) - it’s a vacation month. 
It’s August in the UK
    * Rank these - (added a column to doc) 
    * Add what we’re already doing to this table. 
    * Instead of thinking of this as a table of “things to do” thinking of it as something that will connect to other existing activities. 
    * Synch vs. asynch discussions. 
    * Side quest discussion 


## 2025-06-17

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- _Name / GitHub handle / affiliation_
- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

- [name=Min] Finally figured out dependabot PRs for transitive dependencies with pip-compile: https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/pull/3312 May want similar PRs on a number of repos.
- [name=Min] Thanks to everyone who participated in the JupyterHub leadership meeting, especially organizers!

### Agenda :clock2: 

_Add items to discuss below to build the agenda for the meeting. Include your name so we know who to give the floor to. Try to give an estimate of how long you expect the discussion will take so we can effectively manage time. (We know this is hard, just do your best!) If we receive a lot of agenda points, we may use breakout rooms to facilitate parallel disussion in order to get through as many points as possible._

- [name=Erik] ready for minor release of z2jh


## 2025-05-20

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- _Name / GitHub handle / affiliation_
- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Erik / @consideRatio / Sundell Open Source Consulting
- Matt Fisher / @mfisher87 / Schmidt DSE @ Berkeley
- Kirstie / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science
- Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c
- Chris Holdgraf / @choldgraf / 2i2c
- Beth Duckles / @bduckles / Organizational Mycology
- Zachary Katz / @zsk4 / Colorado School of Mines
- Dan Sholler / @dsholler / Organizational Mycology
- Simon Li / @manics / University of Dundee
- Brigitta Sipőcz / @bsipocz / Caltech

### Introduce yourself! :wave:

_If you are new to the meeting, add your name below and you can introduce yourself at the start of the meeting._

- Angus Hollands: Open Source Applications Engineer @ 2i2c, contributor to scikit-hep, Scientific Python, Jupyter Book, and entropy of the universe :sparkles: My Saluki-Greyhound Nettie is both my hobby and a lifestyle choice :dog2:
- Matt Fisher: Community manager & software engineer for [GeoJupyter](https://geojupyter.org). I love dogs :dog:, gardening :seedling:, and playing drums and keyboards :notes: with friends!
- Dan Sholler: Organizational research and development at [Organizational Mycology](https://orgmycology.com) - helping open source projects work better organizationally. Watching sports and walking dogs are my favorite hobbies :)
- Beth Duckles - also doing Org Development with OS groups alongside Dan at [Organizational Mycology](https://orgmycology.com). We're working on the [Voices of JupyterHub project](https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS) which is forthcoming. For fun I enjoy knitting and other fiber arts.
- [Chris Holdgraf](https://chrisholdgraf.com): Executive Director of [2i2c](https://2i2c.org), a non-profit that manages a network of cloud infrastructure hubs for communities in research and education. Also a co-lead of JupyterHub/Binder, Jupyter Book, and on the Jupyter Executive Council. I write a lot of [open sourcey stuff on my blog](https://chrisholdgraf.com/blog)
- Kirstie Whitaker: Executive Director at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, also Founder of The Turing Way
    - Collaborating with Jupyter & Scientific Python
    - Passionate about getting funding into scientific open source projects! :money_with_wings:
- Min RK: JupyterHub team member at Simula in Norway, working on Jupyter since 2006.
    - Working on conections between projects (e.g. Jupyter Hub -> Server -> Kernel, Kubernetes )
    -
- Simon Li: Working on opensource infrastructure for analysing sensitive data. JupyterHub maintainer.
- Brigitta Sipőcz: Ex astronomer working as a developer at Caltech/IPAC on Python tools to access astronomical datasets. Specifically cares for infrastructure useful for scientific python libraries and maintains tutorials for various projects.

- Zachary Katz: PhD student at Colorado School of Mines, interesed in open science and helping bridge the gap between Jupyter and science publications.

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:

_Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!_

JupyterHub

- CHP 5 beta with new underling proxy, thanks to William Stein: https://github.com/jupyterhub/configurable-http-proxy/pull/576 Please test!
- JupyterHub team compass has a more memorable URL!
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/776

Jupyter Book

- Jupyter Book new contributions!
    - [Site footers!](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/565)
    - [Edit this page buttons!](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/577)
    - This was a big group effort from Kira, Stefan, Angus, and Franklin.
    - It was made much more possible by the scientific python workshop/summit, thanks for organizing that.
- There have been a ton of improvements to the MyST contributing guide, thanks Stefan for helping us test these out.
    - https://mystmd.org/guide/overview
    - These are not yet live but [here's the mega-PR](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2012) that adds the new concepts we wanted to cover.
    - We would love feedback on how to make this better
- Ryan Lovett has a really nice little plugin to support lightweight blogs and galleries in MyST/Jupyter Book: https://github.com/ryanlovett/myst-listing-plugin-demo

### Agenda :clock2:

_Add items to discuss below to build the agenda for the meeting. Include your name so we know who to give the floor to. Try to give an estimate of how long you expect the discussion will take so we can effectively manage time. (We know this is hard, just do your best!) If we receive a lot of agenda points, we may use breakout rooms to facilitate parallel disussion in order to get through as many points as possible._

:::spoiler Tools for breakouts, if required
- Cuckoo shared timer: https://cuckoo.team/jupyterhub-collab-cafe
:::

- [name=Kirstie] (10min): Intro to a Collaboration Cafe
- [name=Min] (5 min): Intro to JupyterHub
- [name=Angus] (2 min): Intro to Jupyter Book
- [name=Chris] (5 min): Connecting Jupyter projects
- [name=Chris] (5min): Chris wants to prime everybody to start thinking about technical, product, and team strategy for JupyterHub and Jupyter Book because we're going to trigger some of these conversations in Jupyter at-large.
    - [Here's the JEC issue](https://github.com/jupyter-governance/ec-team-compass/issues/118) describing this at a high level
- [name=Chris] (5min): Any objections to removing `/en/latest` from our team compass and switching to "folder-based" URLs instead? [ref issue](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/777)
        - Group agreed that making the URLS consistent and more easily read was a good move forwads
        - **Decision** - one more week to investigate a graceful transfer with no breaking links. After 27 May go ahead with "good enough" effort.
- [name=Samuel] (10m): Jupyter Buildpack
    - Buildpacks: Package a set of artifacts which will be used for a project. Started with Heroku (?), became open source. The tricky part: Deploying as a development environment where you may want more than one kernel to play with.
    - Output: A docker image allowing use of Jupyter in a controlled environment, as similar as possible to local machine (esp. dev environment).
    - Previously explored within repo2docker: https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/issues/868
- [name=Samuel] (10m): repo2docker backed by pack
    - https://paketo.io/
- [name=Samuel] (10m): Amalthea for KubeSpawner
    - https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/amalthea/
    - Amalthea is a K8s "operator": Allows creating pods that are jupyter server (JupyterLab session ready to use). Evolved to become more generic.
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/kubespawner/issues/839
    - Use Amalthea operator in JupyterHub?
    - Help maintain and improve it.
    - Simon: How easy is it to maintain? How's the developer experience?
    - Samuel: Amalthea moved from Python -> Go. It reads YAML and generates k8s building blocks. Not overly hard to grasp/dive into. Does some optional things related to hibernation.
    - Min: Seems worthwhile to try replacing kubespawner with Amalthea.
- [name=Kirstie] (5 mins) Leadership retreat: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/761


## 2025-04-15

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Erik Sundell / @consideRatio / Sundell Open Source Consulting AB
- Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c

### Introduce yourself! :wave:

- `agoose77` — Hi all :wave:, I'm an OS Application Engineer at 2i2c, here on behalf of the Jupyter Book team. I'm joining these Collab Cafés following a suggestion from Kirstie Whitaker that the Jupyter Book team share this space: https://github.com/jupyter-book/team-compass/issues/20#issuecomment-2749522676

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:


- Simon did a great job setting up https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-container-images for publishing jupyterhub images. It will build our 5.3 release later today!
- new GESIS mybinder federation member on Hetzner!
- JupyterHub 5.3 release ready!
- github-activity 1.0 released, it is used in our release processes, no need to install from main branch any more

### Agenda :clock2:

- _[name=Erik] (10m): JupyterHub org to pilot GitHub org wide security configuration_
    - Working with the Jupyter Security Subproject, we have concluded it would be good to pilot if the "GitHub Recommended" org wide security configuration could be relevant to apply across all Jupyter's 16 active GitHub org's.
    - I propose JupyterHub takes the lead and pilots adoption of this security configuration, see https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/768.
    - Agenda item goal: to make a decision if/when to trial applying the GitHub recommended security configuration in our org in a "don't enforce" way.
- [name=Min] (5m): JupyterHub 5.3 release **today** https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/5048

Agenda finished early, so we tested enabling GitHub Recommened Security on jupyterhub/jupyterhub.
Conclusion was that we should _not_ enable this, due to the use of CodeQL (https://github.com/jupyter/security/issues/102#issuecomment-2808850179),
but a _very similar_ security policy (e.g. identical minus CodeQL) ought to be fine.

## 2025-03-18

### Check-in :raising_hand: 

- _Name / GitHub handle / affiliation_
- Kirstie W / [@KirstieJane](https://github.com/KirstieJane) / Berkeley Institute for Data Science 
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS
- Simon / @manics 
- Erik / @consideRatio / Sundell open source consulting AB
- Wayne Decatur/ @fomightez / Upstate Medical University

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

- :speaking_head_in_silhouette: Thank you Yuvi for submitting a talk application to SciPy!

### Agenda :clock2: 

- Transferring some PyPI projects to Jupyter org
  - https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/763
  - https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyter-server-proxy/issues/524
  - Old issue about setting up a PyPI org: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/649
  - About adding people to the PyPI org: https://github.com/jupyter-governance/ec-team-compass/issues/101
- Connections between JupyterHub and Jupyter leadership
    - https://chrisholdgraf.com/blog/2025/jupyter-org-structure
    - https://chrisholdgraf.com/blog/2025/os-support
    - https://github.com/jupyter-governance/jupyter-foundation-governing-board/issues/1
    - Discussion: supportive of developer in residence programme
        - Question: Do we want to have people full time or part time? 100%, 50%, 20% - does that help people to participate? EG folks who are already paid to work in the stack but free up some of their time 
        - Inspiration could come from: https://ev.kde.org/corporate/careers/
    - Remember that not everyone wants to be paid - there's a lot of uncertainty and work involved in setting up a business as a contractor
    - Gift economy vs market economy (return on investment)
    - General agreement that _not_ putting together an open process in this first year is the right choice
        - More important to spend the money quickly and experiment with what is going to be of benefit to the project / ecosystem as a whole.
- Voices of JupyterHub update
  - Report around 80% done - a few more interviews to conduct but writing happening.
  - Retreat booked for 4 & 5 June: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/761
      - Next steps identifying agenda
      - Funds for childcare and dinner available for remote participants.
      - Aiming for true hybrid discussion - meaning remote attendees participate with the in person attendees (not parallel conversations)

## 2025-02-18

### Check-in :raising_hand:

- _Name / GitHub handle / affiliation_
- Min / @minrk / Simula
- Samuel / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Erik / @consideratio / -

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada:

- JupyterHealth is adopted as part of JupyterHub
- Lots of wonderful work on single-node members of mybinder federation by @yuvipanda and 2i2c

### Agenda :clock2:

Security-related work ideas in JupyterHub

- Related to @krassowski writing about security work funding [in Zulip](https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/469744-jupyterhub/topic/Security.20training.20.28GitHub.20Secure.20Open.20Source.20Fund.29)

ideas:

- Enable PKCE ("pixie", /ˈpɪksi/) in JupyterHub
  - wip: https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub/pull/4936
  - Requires database schema change to store code_verifier, otherwise relatively simple. Client-side already implemented in OAuthenticator.
  - Enables OAuth without a client secret ("public client")
  - To be required in OAuth 2.1, but it's unclear when it is to be a thing
  - A client ID is required, and tied to a redirect URL
  - Tech overview [docs](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/authorization-code-flow-with-pkce)
- Explore JWT, JWKs instead of opaque access tokens
  - scopes in JWTs signed with JWKs could enable auth without Hub requests (still need revocation)
  - Caveats around dynamic scopes like `inherit` need consideration
- Refresh tokens, expiring token UX
  - JupyterHub should support refresh tokens
  - Improving JupyterLab UX of expiring/refreshing token
    would enable shorter expiration by default
- JupyterHub as OIDC provider
  - needs JWT, _maybe_ JWK
  - doesn't need full benefits of JWKs, though
- OIDCAuthenticator
  - no direct security benefit, but simplified deployment because
    OIDC specifies several configuration options derived from a single .well-known URL
- Security-focused testing
  - there is probably tools and practices to _verify_ security and authentication
  - for jupyterhub as an IdP, how do we verify that we implement OAuth2 correctly?
  - Are there best practices on testing OAuth2 functionality, specifically focused on ensuring we deny access correctly


## 2025-01-21

### Check-in

- Kirstie Whitaker / KirstieJane / UC Berkeley
- Sarah Gibson / sgibson91 / 2i2c
- Samuel Gaist / @sgaist / Idiap Research Institute
- Raniere Silva / rgaiacs / GESIS
- Min RK / @minrk / Simula
- Erik Sundell / @consideRatio / Sundell open source
- Wayne Decatur / fomightez/ Upstate Medical University
- Yijun / yijunge-ucb / UC Berkeley
- Dan Sholler / @dsholler / OrgMycology
- Arielle Bennett / @arielle-bennett / The Alan Turing Institute
- Maryam Vareth / @maryamv / UC Berkeley and UCSF 

### Introductions

- **Kirstie** Not really new to the meeting but a new job for 2025 - I'm now the executive director of the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, working with Fernando Perez as Faculty Director. We're VERY excited about contributing into the Jupyter ecosystem :rocket: 
- **Arielle** Hi, I'm Arielle, senior researcher for open source practices at Turing. Interested in looking at open source contributions, communities, and technical support. I also contribute to The Turing Way which has close links with Jupyter! 
- **Maryam** Hi, I'm Maryam, and I serve as the CTHO at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science (BIDS), working very closely with Fernando Perez. I'm also the Managing Director of Agile Metabolic Health Inititave at UC Berkeley College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), developing JupyterHealth which is being considered to be a subproject of JupyterHub (VERY exciting). We're thrilled about the opportunity to become more involved and contribute to the JupyterHub ecosystem moving forward.
- **Yijun** Hi, I'm Yijun and I work on UC Berkeley RTL's datahub project. I am excited to learn more about JupyterHub and engage with the JupyterHub community.

### Celebrations and Shout-Outs :tada: 

- https://2i2c.mybinder.org/
- Simon Li (@manics) has done a lot of work related to ARM64 and IPv6!
- If you're on the JupyterHub Steering Council don't forget to vote in the Executive Council 2025 Election
- Yuvi, Min, Simon, Chris, Sylvain for handling OVH mybinder.org outage and working towards a cost effective new strategy!
- Kirstie: Massive shout out to Sarah for stepping in to host when I had terrible internet problems!

### Agenda

- **Kirstie** 10 mins: New year intentions! These can be personal or professional, related to Jupyter or not!
    - Doh - this got cut because Kirstie had terrible internet!
- **Dan** 10-15 mins: [Voices of JupyterHub update](#voices-of-jupyterhub)
- **Samuel** 5 - 10 mins: [Update on Renku / Amalthea operator](#renku--amalthea-operator)
- **Min** 5 - 10 mins: JupyterHealth adoption
    - To be approved/merged: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/755
- **Yuvi** 10min: 2i2c mybinder federation member

#### Voices of JupyterHub

* Update from Dan
* Please send recommendations of people who have stopped contributing to the community - really important cohort to learn from
* What are the skills that someone needs to move from being a contributor to a maintainer
* Expression of Interest for interviews https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfQ7cpwtDOPd2paYkU4gy60hwxXUxw-Nk1xa7Qu_MrBTfZeNA/viewform?usp=sf_link 
* Repo for the project: https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS
    * Issues welcome! Topics we should cover, feedback on desired outputs, etc.
    * Results will also be published here, ongoing
* Targeting mid-February for end of interviews and preliminary results

#### Renku / Amalthea operator

* Early access opportunity for 2.0! 
* Allows a few more user interface options
    * https://renkulab.io/
    * https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku
    * https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/amalthea

#### JupyterHealth

* Issue: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/752
* Pull request: https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/pull/755
* Recommendation from Samuel: https://www.chorus-tre.ch
    * Might be using Jupyter?
    * Work in a similar / overlapping area
* Also connect to Simon for work in SATRE and UK TRE community
    * https://satre-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
    * https://www.uktre.org/en/latest/

#### 2i2c joining BinderHub Federation

* Update from Yuvi
* Blog post coming soon from 2i2c
* 2i2c hub are in the federation and taking some traffic! 
    * PR: (KW not sure how to find)
* Can we reduce the technological and social costs - and the literal finanical costs! - to build up the BinderHub Federation
* Kirstie - hand up to be involved in brainstorming how to promote the value of the Federation and why it is important to contribute into open
