# 2026 Collaboration Cafe Notes Archive

## 2026-04-07

### Check-in 💁

-   Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley (BIDS) / California
-   Kirstie (she/her) / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley (BIDS) / California
-   Chris (he/him) / @choldgraf / 2i2c / California
-   Arielle (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / Turing Institute / Boston, MA
-   Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Cologne, Germany
-   Kelly (she/they) / @kellyrowland / NERSC / Calif., USA
-   Silas Santini (they/them) / @pancakereport / UC Berkeley
-   Srihari Thyag (he/him) / @Haleshot / TN, IND
-   April (she/they / @aprilmj / 2i2c / Virginia
-   Harold / @haroldC / 2i2c/ Jamaica
-   Franklin (he/him) / @fwkoch / Curvenote / Calgary, AB, Canada
-   Jenny (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yoo-kay
-   Ryan C. Cooper (he/him/his) / @cooperrc / UConn / Connecticut, USA
-   Angus Hollands (he/him) / @agoose77 / 2i2c / Rugby, UK
-   Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c / Oakland, CA, USA
-   Jim (he/him) / @JimMadge / Turing Institute / Exeter, UK
-   Faith Uniter( she /her) @afterthesegfault / NAILUG / Nairobi, Kenya
-   (after the fact) Ryan Lovett (he/him) / @ryanlovett / UC Berkeley

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

What is your favourite memory of Eid-al-Fitr (end of Ramadan) or Easter or start of Fall (in south hemisphere) or start of Spring (in north hemisphere)?

-   tulips blooming!
-   Cadbury's Mini Eggs yummmmm
    -   crunchy shell \>\>\> +10000
    -   Thoughts and comments on the changing of their taste
    -   Not as good as they used to be but UK mini eggs \>\>\> US mini eggs
-   Raniere enjoyed painting eggs during Easter for the first time when was 26 years old.
-   Seeing the flowers come through one by one
-   Nearly driving off the road looking at street trees in bloom
-   "So called heatwaves in the USA" aka not freezing cold
-   Its road+MTB cycling season in New England again!!
    -   also of note: loved to have peep-jousting tournaments with my brother and a microwave
-   After my 1 week trip to Berkeley California, I slept a BUNCH and then painted my living room in "Tuscan Terracotta"

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

-   Completed Harbor migration after Simon solved the mystery of the invisible 15TB
-   Jerome Lecoq had a cool demo of multi-author contribution dashboards: <https://allenneuraldynamics.github.io/AuthorshipExtractor/>
-   First major contributions from someone not me to jupyterbook.pub (from Angus!)
-   Reviewed 26 applications for the community manager position
-   mystmd / myst-theme / jb releases! <https://jupyterbook.org/releases/mystmd/#mystmd-1-8-3>
-   Thanks to LF for noticing our 1.8.2 release and posting about it <https://www.linkedin.com/posts/project-jupyter_jupyter-opensource-scientificcomputing-activity-7446933992299253761-gJS-/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAAANtQGQBmIt1HKyqYrmwBX9Fk2R3Vc9sawE>
-   submitted an abstract to All Things Open on the JH community work
-   Had an abstract as coauthor accepted to EuroSciPy `26- based on graduate course we developed to increase FOSS involvement, and reviews almost done for SciPy`26

### Notes for Breakout room 1: JupyterHub Roadmapping

-   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/roadmap/issues>
-   Kelly to add endorsement to Improving support for OIDC across JupyterHub #5
-   Kelly: open draft PR with batchspawner slurm improvements
-   possible hub roadmap item - acquire maintainer for batchspawner?
    -   general question about what to do with retired/unmaintained repos in the project - jupyterhub-contrib as a possible option
-   Who would be a good maintainer for batchspawner?
    -   Active user, with technical chops to support
-   Could we reach out to the wider community to solicit maintainers? Or the user community?
-   Who is using batchspawner with slurm vs other schedulers (e.g., torque)? How would we find out?
    -   known knowns are UC Berkeley and NERSC currently using batchspawner with slurm
    -   Ryan's addition's several hours after the meeting:
        -   UC Berkeley's Savio cluster doesn't run JupyterHub. They use Open OnDemand.
        -   I deploy JupyterHub on Slurm for the Statistics and Economics departments and we use batchspawner.
-   should we be focusing on adding more issues or moving to a human-oriented roadmap page like 2i2c has?
    -   geojupyter project has adopted this as well, plus work on the linter
        -   <https://github.com/geojupyter/initiatives>
-   Things to add to roadmap:
    -   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/roadmap/issues/6>
    -   Harbor work
    -   Workshops and/or hub dashes?
-   Work through one item to completion
    -   Candidate: Harbor since it's almost done
-   Open source roadmap is not about constraining action, helps with "I have time, but I don't know what to do"
-   Now we have enough information on the roadmap that issues list isn't enough
    -   first version: github project board
-   Project board: <https://github.com/orgs/jupyterhub/projects/5/>
    -   Will create issue on team-compass to discuss project board

### Notes for Breakout room 2: A11y

-   Two existing PRs - One about horizontal scroll is already merged
-   More complicated - <https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/848>. - can we use ansi classes? Does anyone understand this enough to help?
-   Audit of a set of exiting Jupyter Books
-   How do we handle these?
    -   A system for recognising and reporting a11y problems
    -   Prioritising issues
    -   Identifying code changes and publishing fixes
-   Some tools for assessing a11y:
    -   GH Action to audit entire site: <https://github.com/data-8/textbook/blob/main/.github/workflows/a11y.yml>
    -   useful for single page audit: <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/axe-devtools-web-accessib/lhdoppojpmngadmnindnejefpokejbdd?hl=en-US&pli=1>
    -   useful for single page: <https://wave.webaim.org/extension/>
    -   useful for notebook: <https://github.com/berkeley-dsep-infra/jupyterlab-a11y-checker>
    -   <https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/> (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines standard)
    -   <https://pa11y.org/>
    -   Ryan's addition several hours after the meeting:
        -   <https://jupycheck.vercel.app/> (uses jupyterlab-a11y-checker, noted above)

### Notes for JupyterBook.pub

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

-   Security boundary
    -   Long run --- tease out the implementation for building in a self-contained file to ease path towards containerisation.
-   Angus will restore support for custom themes for source builds still via two phase build.
    -   Then merge this.
-   Yuvi / Angus will collaborate on the JupyterHub PR.
-   Yuvi / Angus will coordinate on security sandboxing and also on locking.

### Notes for Breakout room 4: Jupyter Book roadmapping

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

-   This was the first time we attempted to walk through the roadmap at this meeting
-   Chris did a little intro of the current project boards set up and intentions, but the rest of the room was full of lurkers/observers, so we couldn't accomplish the goal of board review (which is alignment among contributors)
-   We all decided to go find other rooms :)\

## 2026-03-17

### Check-in 💁

-   Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Berkeley, CA
-   Min RK (he/him) / @minrk / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / CA
-   Chris Holdgraf (he/him) / @choldgraf / 2i2c.org / California
-   Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Germany
-   R Ely / @ohrely / Bloomberg / CA
-   Erik Sundell / @consideratio / Sundell open source /
-   Stéfan van der Walt / @stefanv / BIDS + Scientific Python

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*Favourite flavor of ice cream? And favorite place to eat it!*

-   Min: Burnt Caramel or Candied Meyer Lemon from Ici in Elmwood, Berkeley, CA (RIP)
-   Kirstie: Trader Joes chocolate chip cookie ice cream sandwich.... erm... anywhere! Maybe in the playground after picking up Mackenzie from school now its nice and warm here!
-   Exotic brazilian fruits, e.g. Jabuticaba <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabuticaba> or Cajá <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spondias_mombin> or Buriti <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mauritia_flexuosa>
    -   (For those in the US, you can try these at the fruit and spice park in Florida [https://www.miamidade.gov/parks/fruit-spice.asp)](https://www.miamidade.gov/parks/fruit-spice.asp))
-   Stéfan: Salted Caramel, Coffee, Chocolate ... how do you even choose. Homemade is fun too!

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

-   Min: Finished migration of mybinder.org registries to Harbor
-   The MyST AnyWidget Directive: <https://jupyterbook.org/blog/posts/2026/the-myst-anywidget>
    -   Authors of MyST Markdown can now embed interactive JavaScript widgets directly in content using the new {anywidget} directive.
    -   Go click the confetti button!!
    -   Thank you Steve for writing the blog, and thank you Curvenote for upstreaming this work!
-   Job posting is live and we have a few applications in already!
    -   <https://blog.jupyter.org/call-for-applications-community-manager-for-jupyterhub-and-jupyter-book-88b128a1a7b9>
-   Thanks to Yuvi for writing up announcement for BIDS in the mybinder federation (not published yet)
-   Next Jupyter Open Studio Day in NYC on Monday, April 20th
    -   <https://go.bloomberg.com/attend/invite/jupyter-open-studio-day-april-20-2026/>
-   New releases in Jupyter Book (2 weeks old but I don't think we mentioned it last time)
    -   MyST Engine: <https://jupyterbook.org/releases/mystmd>
    -   MyST Theme: <https://jupyterbook.org/releases/myst-theme>

### Notes for Breakout room 1: mybinder

-   We will change the Harbor configuration to use a quota of 10TB
-   Harbor is configured with retention rules that we are still assessing as it takes time for Harbor to "flat" in storage thanks to garbage collector
-   We will explore the option to sync the container storage between OVH and Heztner and revisit if it become too expensive given egress costs
-   The "old" 70TB s3 bucket will be deleted soon.

### Notes for Breakout room 2: Jupyter Book

-   It can be hard to figure out how to do something that isn't already clear
-   Accessibility -
    -   Jupyter Book 2 - uses MyST - uses ReDux HTML framework - better accessibility than JB1
    -   How do we check for the math accessibility
-   Proposed enhancement - can we make sure to add alt text to ..... \[HELP - what?\]
    -   Can we add alt text to tables \[More details?\]
-   Need to figure out which customisations are "MyST's problem" vs work for the person / team \_doing\_ the customisation!
    -   The MyST problem is to ensure there are pathways like AnyWidget so that when users run into problems that are outside of the MyST perspective, they have a path (hack) to get what they need done.
-   Do we want to make it easier to load in custom HTML?
    -   How do we make it safe to include?
-   Conversion to LaTeX looks pretty smooth.
    -   What is reassuring about this is that MyST -\> LaTeX is pretty straightforward and can be easily customized. From this "checkpoint" one can confidently generate accessible PDFs using standard procedures.
-   This is a relevant issue: <https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2743>
-   Question about how to configure internal things like the command options used when running latexmk (see [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1855)](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1855)). Conclusion: no specific place for this right now. Discuss on Discord.

### Notes for Breakout room 3: Jupyter Health

-   Case study: JupyterHealth wants to support 2i2c's upstream contributions to the tools that JupyterHealth depends on.
    -   What could 2i2c provide to Jupyter Health project. And how Jupyter Health could grow from part of JupyterHub into its own project?
-   What is needed to sustain projects and communities outside of contractual work?
-   Foundational contributions to the tools that JupyterHealth depends on
    -   What are the foundational where we?

## 2026-02-17

### Check-in 💁

-   Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / KirstieJane / Berkeley Institute for Data Science, UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA
-   Min (he/him) / minrk / BIDS / California
-   Simon (he/him) / manics / University of Dundee / 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
-   Ryan (h/him) / ryanlovett / UC Berkeley
-   Brigitta Sipőcz / @bsipocz / Caltech / Seattle, WA
-   Kelly Rowland (she/they) / @kellyrowland / NERSC / SF Bay Area, CA, USA
-   Jenny Wong (she/her) / 2i2c / Yorkshiree UK
-   Yuvi / 2i2c / Oakland, CA, USA
-   Arielle Bennett / @Arielle-Bennett / The Alan Turing Institute / Boston MA
-   Chris Holdgraf / @choldgraf / 2i2c / California
-   Angus / @agoose77 / 2i2c / UK
-   Jonathan Guinegagne / @JGuinegagne / AWS / New York, NY, USA

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*Favourite Winter Olympic sport? (To watch or participate in!)*

-   Kirstie: curling I think! Or snowboard cross?
-   Simon: also curling, surprisingly strategic based on random YouTube/Instagram Shorts
-   Ryan: Luge? Bobsled?
-   Yuvi: Too cold for me to watch
-   Angus: LUUUGE. Also skating.\
-   Jenny: I have not been following, but seen random clips that look funny -- such as a few photo finishes with athletes in compromising(?) looking positions. Such a Jenny coded comment
-   Brigitta: I'm not really watching the games, but already planning a curling outing with my alpine club (and can't wait to get more snow)
-   Arielle: Snowboarding (I am a very mediocre snowboarder) & ICE HOCKEY - USA vs Canada final for the women's gold! Records being broken all over the place!
-   Kelly - all the things! big olympics fan generally, ice hockey fan outside of the events

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

Add a note to celebrate the awesome work someone in the community has been doing!

-   Jenny Wong added to the team!!
    -   Congratulations Jenny!! !!!!

### Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

-   Roadmapping workshop planning - agenda, activities, what work do we need to do before February 2026?
    -   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805>
-   Yuvi: jupyterbook.pub and binderlite could be the same thing
    -   @agoose77
-   Yuvi: Integrating repoproviders into repo2docker / binderhub / nbgitpuller
    -   @agoose77
    -   jnywong: also interested but i feel that would be too 2i2c heavy
-   CH: Anybody want to brainstorm where a JupyterHub landing page should be?
    -   Yes at a cafe in March pls!
-   Angus: Thinking about anywidgets?

### Notes for Breakout room: Jupyter Hub Roadmapping

-   What are we worried about?
    -   Kirstie: Small group in Europe - want to make sure that team are well set up for success
        -   Quantstack COO Matthias attending - what opportunity do we have to engage with him?
            -   Is he the one who was interested in TREs?
                -   Yes - potentially - although we should confirm that....
                    -   Suggestion from Kirstie: Use Europe session 1 to focus on TREs, save the Roadmap/Goals for the first synchronous session
    -   Arielle: Best way to make use of synchronous sessions
    -   How to convey ideas between groups (4 groups - local/remote, EU/US)
-   What do we want to achieve?
    -   establish goals for roadmap
        -   What do we mean by a "goal"?
    -   discuss current/future plan options, start prioritizing
-   We need to ensure
-   Jenny is not attending but happy to put cycles into help with any last min prep
-   CH: Which of the following is the best example of our goals?
    -   "expansive" (e.g. brainstorm lots of ideas)
    -   "contractive" (e.g., turn a lot of ideas into a prioritized list)
    -   "Process-oriented" (e.g., meta conversations about what a roadmap means to us and how we'll use it)
    -   Answer:
        -   Day 1: Expansive. Strategic analysis w/ an external or product focus. Where does JupyterHub fit in the landscape. When we think of the purpose of the broader Jupyter project, are we aligning ourselves with that purpose? SWOT style analysis.
        -   Day 2: Expansive. Strategic analysis w/ an internal or team focus. How does the roadmap serve the community? This is NOT "how do we manage the roadmap?" "how is it structured?" "who decides what goes on the roadmap?" etc.
        -   Content differences:
            -   EU session - trusted research environments
            -   California session - educational researchers
-   Existing resources
    -   User Workshop Notes: <https://annuel.framapad.org/p/jupyterhub-users-jc-nov-2025-ahog?lang=en>
    -   Org Mycology Report: <https://voicesofjupyterhub.orgmycology.com/>
    -   Hub Dash meeting notes: <https://annuel.framapad.org/p/jupyterhub-hubdash-dec2025-ai4l?lang=en>
-   Asynchronous work:
    -   Ideas/activities for prioritisation
-   Each day: 3h Europe session, 3h joint session, 3h US session
-   Europe: recommend a deep dive into scoping the TRE use cases
-   Day 1 Synchronous work (3 hours):
    -   Introductions - based on the presentation Min has prepped
        -   30 mins?
    -   Mapping the landscape - where is JupyterHub active
        -   Breakouts: 30 mins
        -   Summaries: 15 mins
    -   Tightening up the themes of the landscape
        -   Breakouts?
        -   Shared discussion
        -   Is there anything we would NOT do based on this
-   Day 1 outcomes:
    -   Short page that articulates what purposes the JupyterHub community is looking to serve
    -   
-   Day 2: how can the roadmap serve the community?
    -   Developing themes: TREs, education,
        -   Who will be keeping an eye on parts of the project?
-   Shared statement to promote whats happening is probably something to happen after the workshop - might be difficult to achieve consensus
    -   Its an outcome of the workshop but not completed during the workshop
    -   Aimed at exec council

### Notes for Breakout room: JupyterLite / BinderLite / Jupyter Book


-   Yuvi was at the Project Pythia community meeting today, where the conversation about using jupyterbook.pub for PR previews came up.
    -   Brigitta talks about CircleCI usage vs Netlify. A possible goal to ditch circleCI?
    -   We should create an action to make this trivial!
    -   JB needs to support do-not-execute.
        -   CH: Different from this? <https://mystmd.org/guide/execute-notebooks#skip-entire-notebooks>
        -   Yes \^ we want to consume the outputs, but turn off execution. Wait...
        -   Doesn't that already happen as long as yuvi isn't running with `--execute`?
            -   Maybe hence the wait hahah \<3 oof that's a terrible font for hearts BIG OOF
            -   No it doesn't. I wonder ...
        -   <https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2710>
    -   Pass in JUPYTER_SERVER env vars like we do in?
        -   Unbounded execution not ideal from cost perspective.
        -   Bring your own execute.
    -   Build / API tokens?
        -   Not unless we have to --- complexity/security plus ecosystem vibes
-   <https://github.com/Caltech-IPAC/irsa-tutorials/pull/253> was made as we try to figure out if what else is needed to support executed previews on jupyterbook.pub
-   Yuvi demos building binderlite on top of jupyterbook.pub foundations.
    -   Uses emscripten-forge

## 2026-02-03

### Check-in 💁

-   Kirstie Whitaker (she/her) / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA
-   Brigitta Sipőcz (she/her) / @bsipocz / Caltech / Seattle, WA
-   Michael McNeil Forbes / @mforbes / Washington State University / Pullman, WA
-   Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS / Germany
-   Paolo Marzolo / @pollomarzo / politechnic of milan / milan, IT
-   Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c / United Kingdom
-   Min / @minrk / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA
-   Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c / "United" States
-   Jenny (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / UK
-   April (she/they) / @aprilmj / 2i2c / Virginia, US
-   Stéfan van der Walt / @stefanv / BIDS + Scientific Python / Truckee, CA
-   Silas Santini / @pancakereport / UC Berkeley

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What costume are you planning for Carnival or Halloween?*

-   Kirstie: I'm horrible at costumes - they trigger my social anxiety so much everyone else is so much more funny and clever than me! So probably a Disney Princess outfit to match with Mackenzie (age 3)
-   This is crazy forward-planning...
-   I'm lazy, so will just reuse the seahorse I got for for a ski trip this past halloween. Picture is here if anyone is keen to see it: <https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczPyvpAGH8BUdpEYSCAu4ndd5a6FawRZenAoGPqMhh9lxOjY1Hvpl_scn7a2NXUXxEYXFT9haoXVNeRZ4IdtM4m9reXkTxsJaMtE6BTYtgM1mthsitT1rNWicfZIDwSuPcyFNmZp5KaV8DgNj3PCx3E6XQ=w1408-h1876-s-no?authuser=0>
    -   \<3 this!
-   Raniere would love to wear a Jupyter hat during Cologne Carnival.
-   my dream costume would be hagrid...
-   I have never done a costume for haloween, but i suspect this would be my first year (actually i was wrong)
-   Wait, are we not in February?

## Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

-   Kirstie: Jupyter Health team having a team retreat - considering how we can work more in the open!
-   Kirstie: Big docs overview from Chris!!
    -   <https://github.com/jupyter-book/jupyter-book/issues/2528>
-   Chris: Thanks to Raneire for posting about the collaboration cafe on LinkedIn
-   Chris: Thanks to Angus for pushing forward that MyST outputs AST PR a bit more (I know we still have a ways to go)
-   Yuvi: Thanks to Min for getting BIDS sponsored OVH node on mybinder.org fully done
-   Yuvi: Thanks to Jenny for getting a significant UX change into nbgitpuller that will make a lot of instructors & students' lives better 🙌
    -   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/nbgitpuller/pull/383>

## Breakout room and agenda item suggestions

-   Roadmapping workshop planning - agenda, activities, what work do we need to do before February 2026?
    -   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805>
-   JupyterBook as a tool for Collaboration and Web Accessibility (Websites, Canvas, Theses, etc.)
    -   Is there a good way to collaborate on MD files (like Google Docs)? The example at <https://mystmd.org/> is a nice start - how can we implement that? CoCalc? (can we work with them to get MyST supported in their editor?) Others?
    -   Can we get MyST into Wordpress for those who need that?
        -   We can probably use something like <https://wordpress.org/plugins/reactpress/> to get our web rendering working (see the sandbox)
    -   See also <https://www.blocknotejs.org/>
    -   
-   CH: Angus could we chat about the MyST output AST stuff so that I can understand your vision there?
    -   Yes!
    -   [https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/SJZLyMaNbl](https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/SJZLyMaNbl)
    -   [https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/HkVEefF4Zx](https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/HkVEefF4Zx)
    -   [https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/B1BgfNtVZl](https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/B1BgfNtVZl)
-   CH: Chris has a few PRs that are probably close-ish - happy to discuss anything that could push them forward
    -   Remote "parts": <https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2687>
    -   Social icons in the navbar: <https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/787> (I think this will require a small mystmd change)
    -   Less-aggressive reference parsing: <https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2684>
-   Jupyter Book bento-like theme ideas? cc. Stefan
-   Yuvi: jupyterbook.pub demo / questions about usefulness
    -   New issue just dropped <https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2688>

### Notes for JupyterHub Roadmapping workshop

-   <https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805>
-   The agenda (only has topics for the Europe time zone so far) for reference: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k0RcJR_g1WgJzTyU3a8paQUg6H_hlTt0n8fSnZU7Oa4/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.395htu1urps>
-   Question from Chris - what outputs from the roadmap workshop will we share with other subprojects?
-   Linux Foundation would like a more detailed/finalised agenda before this gets published to the website
    -   How do we "pass the baton" between the EU and US sync sessions?
    -   The problem to solve: what's a priority and how to communicate that to someone outside the project?
    -   Roadmap purpose: welcome new people and use it as a way to prioritise and have the power to say no to extraneous things
    -   More intentional contributions than reactive
-   Kirstie's proposal: Day 1: get everything on the table, day 2: narrow and focus
-   Min: would love a way to make the roadmap a continuous living document
    -   failure mode is writing a roadmap that doesn't get used
-   Consider the participants in the room, how do we get the most out of them
-   Day 1 -\> easy to see that there's too much to do, Day 2 -\> impetus for people to design *how* we are going to prioritise, not *what*
-   Nice to have regular breaks so that people have opportunities to switch to different rooms/breakout topics
-   Diamond framework: diverge in the async sessions, then converge in the sync sessions
-   day 0: slide deck for intros in advance so we get a sense of who the participants are and what they care about <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RRPqdKtNWmK1sBrYzKB0tnUJfpf5avw8s8NxlmkjWrQ>
-   day 1 async: ideas for what we should be doing (divergent)
-   day 1 sync: align on roadmap goals (converge, more structured)
-   day 2: bring it together, synthesis, how do we prioritize
-   a more sustainable way forward could be that people can come away feeling like they are stewards (of all or) different parts of the JH ecosystem
-   JH is not a monolith; we can subset and have smaller teams, e.g. TRE, binder
-   Challenge for the project is not to have too many overlapping team members so that they are not overburdened to keep track of more moving parts: 7 priority lists are harder to digest than 1
-   For the workshop, it might be a good exercise for subteams to polish what they want in the roadmap
-   Day 1 spring cleaning gives us signals as to what people care about
-   Previous failure modes for roadmapping:
    -   no process for updating them
    -   no bearing on work that was happening -- felt more like a blog post on what was happening now, and not for guiding work and keeping communication open
    -   not designed to serve the purpose of where to prioritise time, more like a snapshot of the current work/retro
    -   previous roadmaps could be intimidating to newcomers? Tradeoff between a roadmap audience for newcomers/seasoned maintainers
-   EU async timezones are harder to structure since they spark the discussion that is passed onto the US timezone -- setting expectations, lightning talks
-   US timezone can refine and pass back proposals to EU

### Notes for Breakout room JupyterBook / MyST a11y

None.

### Notes for Breakout room JupyterBook / MyST AST

*Thank you for taking notes to allow members of our community to catch up if they weren't able to make the meeting time.*

<https://github.com/jupyter-book/jupyter-book/issues/2578>

```
toc:
    - file: parent
      children:
          - file: child
```

`parent.md`:

```
# Title (should be 5.0)

## Heading 1 (should become 5.0.1)
```

`child.md`:

```
# Title (should become 5.1)

## Heading 1 (should become 5.1.1)
```

## 2026-01-20

### Check-in 💁

* Min (he/him) / @minrk / UC Berkeley / California
* Kirstie (she/her) / @KirstieJane / UC Berkeley / Berkeley, CA, USA 
* Tyler (he/him) / @tylere / VorGeo / Los Altos, CA, USA
* Freek / @freekpols / Delft University of Technology
* April (she/they) / @aprilmj / 2i2c
* Raniere Silva / @rgaiacs / GESIS
* Kelly Rowland (she/they) / @kellyrowland / NERSC / Bay Area CA
* Ryan Lovett / @ryanlovett / UC Berkeley / California
* Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c \& JB / Rugby, UK
* Simon Li / @manics / University of Dundee
* Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yorkshire UK
* Arielle Bennett (she/her) / @Arielle-Bennett / The Alan Turing Institute / Boston, MA
* Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c
* Brigitta Sipőcz / @bsipocz / Caltech / Seattle, WA
* Chris Holdgraf / @choldgraf / 2i2c
* Rowan Cockett / @rowanc1 / Curvenote

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What have you already completed in 2026? (Can be professional, personal, related to Jupyter or not!)*

* Walking without stick
* [Kirstie] Finished Friday Night Lights and The Warmth of Other Suns this weekend! Both pretty big books and absolutely fascinating for an immigrant to the USA!
* [min] Deployed a JupyterHub with Gateway API (envoy-gateway), migrated away from nginx-ingress
  * YAAAAS let's go! (Angus)
* [Angus] I have read three *dreadful, awful, bottom tier *books
  * do tell tho (Kelly)
  * Tell meeee which ones 👀
* Raniere] Watched the first season of "The Big Bang Theory" in German.
* [jenny] making some nbgitpuller improvements [https://github.com/jupyterhub/nbgitpuller/pull/383](https://github.com/jupyterhub/nbgitpuller/pull/383)
  * also, i went to paris to extract a cat to the uk last week on an EPIC road trip
* I build a prototype {embed} role for MyST.
* [Ryan] Improved my homeassistant deployment. Chopped up a tree that fell down in my yard.
* [Arielle] The Bright Sword, Katabasis, and StoryLand (I have Opinions)
* [Brigitta] have not completed anything :(

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

* Got new inputs for gallery :D 🖼️ Gallery of Jupyter Books - Jupyter Book
* We have people signed up for the Roadmapping Workshop! Shaping up to be a really interesting event in Feb. 
* Chris' new plugin, [https://github.com/choldgraf/myst-substitutions](https://github.com/choldgraf/myst-substitutions)
* Agah worked on [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2413](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2413), which th Jupyter Book project finally merged! Thanks Agah!!
  * Thanks Agah (NeuroLibre) for all your work on the execution concurrency: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2428](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2428)

### Notes for JupyterHub Roadmapping workshop

* [https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805](https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/805) 
* there are 3 big timeslots we would like to plan an agenda for
* when do we want breakout rooms? when do we want everyone in a sync room together?
* what's the purpose for maintainers and deployers as a source of info? 
* what should we populate the roadmap with? 
* discussing the purpose of the workshop
  * this feels like we should involve everyone
  * defines the parameters of the workshop, e.g. what is a roadmap
* 2 days: 1. what is a roadmap, 2. populate the roadmap
  * theme 1: priorities?
  * theme 2: process?
* folks involved with TREs tend to be based in EU
* ask people to prep priorities in advance and host a discussion group during the sync time? i.e. unconference style
  * possibly some project management here, how to break tasks down
* or traditional approach: put them on a post-it, rank and then order? 
* resources and capacity should inform what should be on the roadmap? We are not top-down, we are a collection of people with needs, goals, and varied availability
* it shouldn't be a to-do list, could have "side-quests" in terms of communicating priorities
* roadmap is not a linear path
  * what questions do we want to answer?
  * deployers might want to know next release
  * contributors: where can i direct my time?
* circulate who's who ahead of the meeting, that might help identify personas and themes for roadmap
  * virtual participants might appreciate maybe a slide deck to share around, so we know who's in the room ahead of time
    * [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RRPqdKtNWmK1sBrYzKB0tnUJfpf5avw8s8NxlmkjWrQ/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RRPqdKtNWmK1sBrYzKB0tnUJfpf5avw8s8NxlmkjWrQ/edit?usp=sharing) (copied from another workshop)
* Day 1: purpose of the roadmap, proposals on how we approach that, e.g. how to keep it up to date, something that is useful for folks to look up easily,
* primary goal is to come out with a process that we can use for the community at large to continually engage with the roadmap and gather inputs, and design it in a way that fits people's interests and priorities
  * e.g. if folks are interested in security, then how does this fit with a shared roadmap?
  * useful to collect experiences from a project planning perspective and avoid common pitfalls
  * could do some skills matrix mapping ahead of time
* follow-up work after the workshop
* personal experiences with roadmaps
  * a public roadmap is not a project management tool, but a tool for helping to coalesce communities and stakeholders together to drive forward progress
  * if you have a team with resources, then this can be useful, but if you have a fragmented, overstretched team, then the roadmap tends to get ignored
* aspirational or practical?
  * difficulty * effort * priority
  * e.g. lots of effort but important tends to get left behind, idea for multiple replicas for hubs has been around for a while, but has not got traction
  * how to make this more visible for potential contributors so that they feel like they can tackle roadmap items?
* outcome of roadmap could help draw in funding from grants to buy people's time
* process could be to sort items into priority and resource buckets
  * how do we present and update this information easily?
  * will the community manager be able to help here?
* Next steps after this café: 
  * take the icebreaker slides away and prep them
  * invite some registered participants to future collab cafés to help discuss agenda

### Notes for Jupyter Book / MyST release

* Table merging: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/759](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/pull/759)
* Widget hydration — [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/428](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/428)


### Notes for Community Manager recruitment

*  We worked together to refine this draft process: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u\_3xZTHgS2LTGbdpr\_JXUu56QfKK7Znlwzd8RcRx8\_w/edit?tab=t.0](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u\_3xZTHgS2LTGbdpr\_JXUu56QfKK7Znlwzd8RcRx8\_w/edit?tab=t.0) 

### Notes for What do you want from the Jupyter Executive Council!?

No notes.

## 2026-01-06

### Check-in 💁

* *Name (and pronouns if you'd like) / GitHub handle / affiliation / geographic location*
* Raniere Silva / rgaiacs / GESIS / Cologne, Germany
* Kirstie Whitaker / @KirstieJane / 
* Jenny Wong (she/her) / @jnywong / 2i2c / Yorkshire, UK  
* Brigitta Sipőcz / @bsipocz / Caltech / Seattle, USA
* Stéfan van der Walt / @stefanv / BIDS + Scientific Python / Truckee, CA
* April Johnson (she/they) / @aprilmj / 2i2c / Virginia, US
* Freek Pols /@freekpols/ delft
* Angus Hollands / @agoose77 / 2i2c \& Jupyter Book
* Robert Lanzafame rlanzafame GEI Consulants Oakland California USA
* Thierry Parmentelat - Inria \& École des Mines - France
* Yuvi / @yuvipanda / 2i2c / Oakland, CA
* Silas Santini/ @pancakereport / UC Berkeley

### Ice breaker 🧊⛏️

*What do you hope to achieve in 2026? (Can be professional, personal, related to Jupyter or not!)*

* Raniere wants to reach level B1 on German language skills.
* Angus wants to read more books, and play more guitar. Also, more snek jokes. ALSO JB featurreeees
* Kirstie wants to figure out how to connect multiple conversation workspaces and promote events in a coordinated way!
* April sets intentions in September \& wants to focus on making and spreading joy
* Jenny wants to survive and go travel and chill by a beach somewhere
* freek, finally get some papers out.

### Celebrations and shout-outs 🎉

* Kirstie: BIDS is now part of the MyBinder Federation!
* Angus: Jupyter Book - nearly at parity with JB1 on output handling!
* latest page Update plugin
* luuk gets the wysiwyg ready
* Yuvi wants to demo jupyterbook.live or jupyterbook.pub or jupyterbookbinder or unnamed thing (not sure where this goes)

### Notes for Jupyter Book

* Injecting Javascript into sites
  * Issue tracking AnyWidget-like integration: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2603](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2603)
  * PR: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2602](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/pull/2602)
* Accessibility
  * Had a pass early on in the project
  * Still needs work, opportunity for someone to take a lead on
  * There are a few low-hanging issues, such as color contrast
    * Cell errors don't meet color contrast requirements
    * Scroller issue ?
  * See also Silas's notes below
* Python Theme server proof-of-concept
  * Show how a "theme" works
  * Consume AST and files and render output
  * Alternative for low-level rendering without JavaScript stack
* MEP status update
  * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-enhancement-proposals/pull/37](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-enhancement-proposals/pull/37)
* Outputs work update:
  *  [https://blog.jupyterbook.org/posts/2025-12-17-per-output-nodes-myst-ast-v3/](https://blog.jupyterbook.org/posts/2025-12-17-per-output-nodes-myst-ast-v3/)
  * Accompanying MEP: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-enhancement-proposals/pull/32](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-enhancement-proposals/pull/32)
* Universal AST - [https://discord.com/channels/1083088970059096114/1457711013532139551/1457711030871527664](https://discord.com/channels/1083088970059096114/1457711013532139551/1457711030871527664)
  * Proposal: [https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/HkVEefF4Zx](https://hackmd.io/@agoose77/HkVEefF4Zx)
* Extensible MyST Exporters — [https://hackmd.io/h8NTuPFBQImhCKKELOhx2g](https://hackmd.io/h8NTuPFBQImhCKKELOhx2g)

* 2026 big picture items
  * What is the most useful way for the community to help?
  * Execution initiative: [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2019](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2019)
  * We're still working on a good strategy for prioritizing and executing on issues

* Reminder: weekly work sessions (see [https://compass.jupyterbook.org/contribute/#events)](https://compass.jupyterbook.org/contribute/#events))
  * Wed 9am Pacific, and feel free to organize other sessions


* Yuvi demo: [https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterbook.pub/](https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterbook.pub/)
  * enter repo (does not need to be GH) and static files for a book are deployed (magic?)
  * yuvi has 5 hrs into this tool and wants input from JB users to know where to take it further
  * ideas:
    * from demo chat: helping with PR review, preserving older/alternative versions of books, ...
    * ability to edit/modify static files after build?
    * regarding execution of source code during book build (e.g., executing cells of a nb); is that possible, and if so how; if it needs a handoff to some compute engine how would that work?
    * use case for a user training: participants edit content, use tool, view book. should be straightforward way to see all of the "version" (perhaps by commit for new users?) and manage how many are preserved? Perhaps a sort of "refresh" button type of feature that jumps to the build from the most recent commit from a repo

* freek/luuk will be working on wysiwyg tool coming weeks

* Silas's Concerns RE Accessibility: color contrast for erroring cell output [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/744](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/744) and scrollable regions (e.g. wide code cells) [https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/743](https://github.com/jupyter-book/myst-theme/issues/743). Need help figuring out where to get started, but should be able to make the fixes easily. 
  * [bsipocz] - I also wonder if fixing this scroller issue would also help with accessibility? [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2458](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/2458)

* Also interested in learning more about interactive visualizations. Discussed kernel-based ones (ipywidgets), non-kernel based ones (plotly, bokeh), iframes (embed a pre-baked visualization). also anywidget and using JS-directly (not yet available, but desired)

### Notes for Community Manager recruitment

* Proposal: [https://github.com/jupyter-governance/funding-proposals/issues/6](https://github.com/jupyter-governance/funding-proposals/issues/6)
  * Funded at 90k
* We need to know what success looks like, so that we can assess whether someone is well suited for the role
  * We're likely to get N>1 good applications!
* Paid take home assignments are a great way to actually see someone's work 
* Can we also collect examples of where they have done similar work before
  * Both as stories (behavioralish interviewing process) and as a portfolio of past work
* We need to know who is going to be part of the hiring process
  * Everyone knows everyone else - and it is very likely that the best candidates WILL be known to us!!
  * Kirstie: FINAL decision maker, chair of the committee! 
  * Yuvi: wants to be part of the process
  * Carol Willing: Yuvi would like her to be part
  * Chris Holdgraf: doesn't need to be part, we think? (ask him) (similarly not Angus as 2i2c represented already through Yuvi)
  * Suggest one of Stefan or Rowan - ask them to nominate?'
  * Min and April: both would like to help design and run the process, to be fair, inclusive \& make a good decision (neither needs to be a decision-maker) 
* What's the recruiting pipeline and timeline
  * Steps
  * When do we want to start?
  * When do we hope to finish?
  * What tools do we use for recruiting (applicant tracking system, etc?)
* How much time do we expect the person to spend on the project?
  * Can they just tell us how much time they'll spend for $90k?
*  How senior is this role? 
  * Are they doing strategy work? Are they writing reports? What percentage of their time will they spend on this effort?
  * Are they engaging with the community? Are they onboarding folks? Supporting newcomers participation?
  * We need the strategic thinker expertise - doesn't need to be super tenured 
  * Needs to wrangle technical leadership (senior, busy, cat-shaped) 
  * Confident, skilled, trusted are qualities we need to look for 
  * They need to set a direction AND go do work hands-on AND bring other people along with them - figure out what to do, do it, get others psyched to do it
* How heavily do we want to weight knowing the JH/JB tech stack? 
  * You need to understand it well enough that it's not a barrier to setting direction 
  * Needs to be empathetic to users and developers!
* As trite as "fast learner" is, the person needs to very quickly learn enough of the power dynamics of the community, enough about the people and vibes, enough about the tech stack, and enough about user experiences to have a thoughtful, trusted - lovable even - voice 
* A skill that is required is being able to montior all the different connections and communications for the projects (discord, github, zulip etc etc) and be able to direct the questions / suggestions to the right place or person.
  *  Very high trust and respect from maintainers required!
* Actions: 
  * By next collab cafe, Kirstie, April (and Min?) will draft a process
  * Yuvi will own creating a take home assignment (deadline 1-2 weeks after that)